[08:40, 15/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 14 Using Others
“As adult children, most of us have used a variety of relationships in an attempt to heal ourselves from the chronic sense of aloneness in our lives.” BRB p. 173
We swam inside other people like a fish swims in water. This gave us some relief from the anxiety we felt when we were alone. Other people’s problems, no matter how bad they were or how needy those faces became, were a tonic to our existence — a way to get out of ourselves. But we learned that we had become overly focused on others, using their dramas and excitement to energize us in unhealthy ways. This is how we realized we had an unhealthy dependence on excitement.
In recovery, we stop trying to fix others. We replace those relationships where we kept going in circles with healthy relationships with others in the program, recognizing the honesty that is available to us.
When we find an ACA sponsor or fellow traveler, it may be the first emotionally honest relationship we have ever had. From there, we learn to take our recovery out into the world and make friends with people who have the same qualities and integrity, people who have boundaries and can take care of themselves. At some point, we realize we’ve made the final turn - we now find overly needy people unattractive. We understand why people reacted to us the way they did before recovery.
On this day I will seek to connect to my Higher Power and connect through the healthy energy of others who want to heal both inside and outside of the program.
[08:42, 15/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: ♂July 15 ​♀
“We will learn how to play and have fun in our lives.“ BRB p. 591
Just as we learn to fear our alcoholic and dysfunctional families, we can now learn to play and enjoy ourselves. This does not mean playing solitary games on our computers, tablets, or game consules.
A way that many of us learn to become more light-hearted is by finding real enjoyment in the company of other ACAs. While we maintain a certain structure in our meetings, we can also experience fellowship before or after the meetings and share good times. This may feel weird to some of us at first because we are learning to relate to people differently than we’re used to, but as with the rest of the ACA program, daily practice helps us become more comfortable with the idea.
Laughter starts to flow more naturally as we begin to let our guard down. We become less concerned with saying the right thing and more concerned with just being in the moment. Where we once filled every waking moment with activity as a way to keep ourselves occupied, we can learn to become more of a human being than a human doing. We can now have fun because we are finally free from the fear of showing our True Self. Did you hear the one about two adult children who walk into a meeting...?
On this day I will practice playing and will enjoy having fun with others in a wholesome and positive way
+31 6 51581833 left
[17:16, 16/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: ♂July 15 ​♀
“We will learn how to play and have fun in our lives.“ BRB p. 591
Just as we learn to fear our alcoholic and dysfunctional families, we can now learn to play and enjoy ourselves. This does not mean playing solitary games on our computers, tablets, or game consules.
A way that many of us learn to become more light-hearted is by finding real enjoyment in the company of other ACAs. While we maintain a certain structure in our meetings, we can also experience fellowship before or after the meetings and share good times. This may feel weird to some of us at first because we are learning to relate to people differently than we’re used to, but as with the rest of the ACA program, daily practice helps us become more comfortable with the idea.
Laughter starts to flow more naturally as we begin to let our guard down. We become less concerned with saying the right thing and more concerned with just being in the moment. Where we once filled every waking moment with activity as a way to keep ourselves occupied, we can learn to become more of a human being than a human doing. We can now have fun because we are finally free from the fear of showing our True Self. Did you hear the one about two adult children who walk into a meeting...?
On this day I will practice playing and will enjoy having fun with others in a wholesome and positive way
[17:17, 16/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 16 Service
“We are motivated to get out of ourselves and to be of service to others...We give back what has been freely given to us in ACA.” BRB p. 439
In our early ACA experience, we may have been skeptical, confused, angry, or sad. Certainly no one has ever come to ACA because things were working well. A physical, mental, and spiritual bottom usually brings us to ACA.
Having come to ACA meetings a few times, we may have caught a glimmer of hope that the ACA program may help us. After a while, we may have asked someone for their number or had a cup of coffee with them to see if we might become fellow travelers.
As we reflect on those early days, we can only imagine what might have become of us had we not found an ACA meeting. Our thoughts may turn to those whose lives are similarly affected, and we would like for them to have the same opportunity for spiritual growth.
So we may decide to participate in the group’s business meeting, or accept a service role at the group, Intergroup, or World Service level. Or maybe we feel most comfortable accepting the invitation to chat or have a cup of coffee with another ACA who is about to embark on this wonderful spiritual adventure. We decide our own best way to give back.
On this day I recall my early days and the progress I have made. In return, I will perform service in some way so that other ACAs may find this life-saving program.
+49 177 3458161 left
July 17
Sexual Abuse
“We release the shame we have carried surrounding the sexual abuse.” BRB p. 233
Those of us who were sexually abused often gravitate to self-destructive behaviors to numb the pain and shame. With meetings and the help of our Higher Power, we gradually shed some of the behaviors that keep us stuck. If we have acted out sexually, we learn respect for ourselves and others; if the use of pornography has brought us shame and guilt, we look honestly at its effect and let it go, one day at a time; if we have numbed ourselves with “socially acceptable” pastimes, like TV and computer games, we learn to find balance.
Some of us who are connected financially to our perpetrators begin to take steps to become financially independent of them, letting go of their control.
In recovery, we honor our Inner Children who survived the abuse by learning how to play again, by giving them a voice and listening to them, especially around sexual thoughts. We let them know that it’s okay to talk, to trust, and to feel. We let them know we are there for them, and that they come first — that they don’t have to be sexual to be loved.
On this day I will remember that as I work my program, I am rescuing myself and no longer allowing the abuse to control my life.
[08:46, 18/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 18

Stored Trauma

“Clinical research strongly suggests that childhood trauma or neglect are stored in the tissue of the children. The emotional or physical trauma does not go away without an effort to address the original cause.” BRB p. 17

“It’s in your bones” they might have said. “There’s something the matter with the whole family.” These statements only beg the question that gets overlooked, “Why?”

Though the trauma of our forefathers and foremothers is stored in us, then so too must be the restorative part of the body. In fact, when we work the Steps, reparent ourselves, attend meetings, and join with a fellow traveler, we are using some of the most powerful tools known to restore our bodies back to a balanced, natural condition. This is not easy and often takes considerable effort and persistence, and may even include an occasional or even a frequent ACA relapse.

However, there is no easier, softer way. The process of recovery involves real work and determination that pays dividends beyond our expectations. If we are willing to stay on this recovery journey, if we trust the Steps and Promises, our bodies can release the trauma, which brings us true relief. The miracle of recovery is the destination and we can get there.

On this day I will pay close attention to my body and the clues it gives me about my stored trauma. I reaffirm for myself that by using the Steps and reparenting myself, the trauma energy can be released so that I may experience a wholeness I could not have possibly imagined.
+1 (720) 757-5120 left
[09:45, 19/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 19

Balance

“We balance our experiences as children with the knowledge that we have a unique chance through ACA to break the cycle of family dysfunction.” BRB p. 95

Many of our family members seemed to live from one reactive moment to the next. There was little, if any, thought given to planning ahead for possibilities and / or how best to approach situations. Some of us tried to change this pattern as adults, perhaps as we raised our own families. Maybe we became rigid when planning, to overcompensate for the chaos we had experienced, or we may have found ourselves frequently feeling overwhelmed. We did not seem to have the capacity to look at the big picture and act accordingly, and we consistently berated ourselves for this shortcoming.

When we find a new way to live in recovery, we work to erase old tapes and old ways of doing things. But ingrained habits do not disappear overnight. When we feel ourselves at either end of the reaction spectrum — too rigid or feeling overwhelmed — we open our new tool bag and find a way to center ourselves, whether it’s through a phone call or using another tool of recovery. By doing so, we reinforce our resolve to live intentional lives. We find purpose and hope because of the balance we are able to integrate. This leads to the peace and serenity we have always deserved.

On this day I will pause and think about how I want to live my day. I affirm that I deserve to live the balanced life that I choose, not a life that simply happens to me.
HUMANBEAN added +1 (646) 872-1770
HUMANBEAN added +1 (780) 722-5014
[08:26, 20/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 20
Emotional Intoxication
“In his ‘Next Frontier’ article Bill [W.] wrote, ‘If we examine every disturbance we have, great or small, we will find at the root of it some unhealthy dependency and it’s consequent unhealthy demand.” BRB p. 628
Growing up in dysfunctional homes meant that chaos was normal. As a result, we may have become adults who could not feel at ease when things were calm. We may have craved drama and excitement on such a subconscious level that we were drawn to it without realizing the reason why.
In recovery, we gain the clarity to see that out of our craving for intensity, we were finding a form of comfort by continually re-creating our childhood atmosphere. But even though this chaos felt familiar, recovery teaches us that our vulnerable and wounded child’s needs were not being met.
By attending meetings and listening to the stories of other adult children, we learn that we are not alone. When we work the program, we cultivate two essential qualities in our lives: courage and self-esteem. Through the Twelve Steps we learn to let go and turn our will and our lives over to a Higher Power of our own understanding. When we do this, we find that gradually the desire for emotional intoxication will leave us.
On this day I free myself from the cycle of emotional intoxication by listening to my Higher Power’s guidance. I deserve balance, which I get by practicing my program in all areas of my life.
+49 172 2554016 joined via an invite link
July 21
Authority Figures
“Abuse from authority figures in childhood has left us on guard as adults about authority figures. We tend to place people in the category of authority figure when they may not be such a person.“ BRB p. 379
Fear of authority figures in our adult life can add unnecessary stress when old fears get triggered. As children, many of us were always on guard to not displease our parents or to find a hiding place when danger was present. One or both parents may have been experts at creating real or imagined fear in us.
Routinely, we now encounter others who have authority over us, either because of our jobs or theirs. Some of us also allow people to assume an authority role because we are afraid of conflict. It can even feel daunting when a parking attendant tells us we can’t park “there,” or a sales clerk tries to talk us into a different purchase. Our goal in recovery is to recognize these situations for what they are, and learn to act as adults.
To gain control over our lives, when we interact with someone in authority, we now do a quick internal track. Are we feeling fearful, angry, resentful, or timid? Are we putting our alcoholic parent’s face on this person? If so, we stop and examine the situation from a new perspective. The interaction may not be pleasant, but it is not our childhood coming back to life.
On this day I will recognize when I am responding to authority figures with childhood reactions. I will now approach things from a new perspective as a recovering adult.
July 22

Therapy and the Twelve Steps

“The miraculous combination of therapy and working the Twelve Steps set me free from the prison of my childhood playpen to explore and experience my real and unique self.“ BRB p. 55

When we first came to ACA, some of us found it confusing and disorienting, but somehow comfortable. We may have taken a while to get started on working the Steps, but when we did, we saw changes in ourselves. It was so heartening that we were finding our True Identity. Sometimes, though, we wondered if we needed help beyond what we could ask of our fellow travelers.

We heard others occasionally mention that they saw a therapist, and that combining therapy with ACA was really helping them. We were surprised when a fellow traveler pointed out Chapter 16 in the BRB, “ACA and Therapy.” It seemed clear that therapy could be a useful ACA tool for us. So we took a risk - we made a different type of phone call.

Before long, we realized that because we found a therapist who understood adult child issues, it was all working. Maybe we didn’t find someone on the first try, but we had the courage to keep trying until we did.

We now see our recovery process move faster and deeper. Our courage in taking a risk is paying off. We feel gratitude that we love ourselves enough to seek this kind of help.

On this day I will pause to reflect on the value that therapy can have for my journey to help me find my unique True Self.
July 23

Grief and Childhood

“Genuine grieving for our childhood ends our morbid fascination with the past and lets us return to the present, free to live as adults. Confronting years of pain and loss at first seems overwhelming.” BRB p. 83

We may have been going to meetings for many years, lamenting the slings and arrows of our recovery life. Perhaps we thought we were “living life on life‘s terms,“ — doing the best we could. But often progress seemed to come in dribs and drabs. This left us with a sense of frustration at the little spiritual progress we had made, despite our best efforts.

But what may have been missing was the willingness to genuinely grieve for our lost childhoods. Grief work is not about just learning to tell our story, but about starting to discover and express the underlying trauma and emotions. Doing this level of work is the true path to freeing ourselves.

When we are no longer held in place by the disembodied stories and the undercurrent of repressed feelings, we can begin to take positive action, change our life’s terms, find joy in the present, and feel alive for possibly the first time.

On this day I will tell the real story of my childhood trauma. In doing so, I will free my True Self and enjoy this day my Higher Power has given me.
[08:47, 24/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 24 Indecision
“Children of alcoholics are paralyzed by indecision when trying to separate emotionally from their homes.“ BRB p. 87
When we started telling our story in ACA, we may have felt like we were betraying everything we had ever known, and we were - but that was okay. Part of our recovery is releasing ourselves from the emotional chaos of our family of origin by rebelling, getting mad, and walking out, saying, “I’m not gonna take this anymore.”
We are reparenting ourselves when we detach from our abusers and take responsibility for our own actions. We learn to share what really happened to us with our fellow travelers and in meetings. We continue to heal when more memories surface and we work through them. We take care of ourselves by journaling, exercising, and learning to eat healthier.
We may still be paralyzed with indecision at times, but we allow our healed parts to nurture the parts that are still sick and wounded – they show up for each other. We rely on those with more recovery to mentor us by observing how they manage times of stress and peace. We walk towards freedom.
On this day I will make forward movement, even when I am afraid of the consequences. I now have a healthy support system that I know will be there for me, including my inner loving parent.
HUMANBEAN added +353 83 413 7441
+1 (581) 309-6020 left
July 25 Feelings
“People want recovery, but they prefer it be pain-free. That is understandable, but unfortunately, identifying and feeling our feelings is a part of healing.” BRB Introduction p. xxiii
“Feelings? What are those?!“ As children from dysfunctional homes, if we cried, many of us were told, “Stop crying or I will give you something to cry about!“ If we openly showed our feelings, we risked being told we were stupid or that we’d never amount to anything. When our parents failed to show up at our special school events, we learned not to show hurt or disappointment. The more vulnerable we were, the more we were shamed. When we were verbally or physically abused, we pretended it didn’t happen. Our broken hearts shut down.
When many of us first come to ACA, we may have no idea how we’re feeling. We’ve been shut down for so long that numb feels normal. Our tears are frozen. Opening up to our feelings seems threatening and scary.
As we keep coming back, we learn to heal by developing trust in our fellow travelers. This feeling of trust can lead to the opening of the flood gates, an expression of emotion that eventually feels normal. As we release our old pain, we make room for discovering how to play and have fun again. We open our hearts and feel joy in our lives.
On this day I welcome all of my feelings, especially those that are unfamiliar and uncomfortable. I have the tools to work through them in order to mend my broken heart from childhood.
July 26

Step Two

“Came to believe that a Power greater than ourselves could restore us to sanity.“ BRB p. 130

Our parents had been our gods. This is normal for children because parents are their primary support system.

As adults, many of us had not progressed past this stage of growth, no matter how far away we moved. We had believed everything they said for so long that we continued to internalize their negativity and messages without even being around them. Their voices were inside us. 

Concerning religious beliefs, some of our families had no tolerance for anything except their religious belief system. Others of us may have been told that only weak minded people believe in a Higher Power. 

In recovery, when many of us seek to identify a Higher Power, we may be confused by these intolerant and abusive viewpoints. To find clarity, we give ourselves permission to step away from those old ideas, even about what the word God means. Many of us may start by seeing our ACA family as the “something greater than ourselves.” This is the beginning of our search for spiritual freedom. It may seem foreign at first, because this wouldn’t have been allowed in our families.

But we are on a journey. We try things out and see what works for us. We notice we have an inner compass, and we start to follow it fearlessly.

On this day I know there is a power greater than me. I honor the fact that my concept of a Higher Power may continue to change as I grow.
July 27
Codependence
“We focus on others to avoid looking at our own behavior and fear.“ BRB p. 335
Why do some of us want to take care of everyone else so badly? Why do we get so incensed when we see others treated poorly, feeling anger and rage towards the perpetrator?
Yes, we feel deeply that no one should take advantage of other people. With the baggage we are carrying from our childhoods often causes us to go beyond trying to help someone. We can blow things entirely out of proportion with our unresolved sadness and rage.
In ACA, we learn that we cannot be effective in helping others until we deal with our own issues. We do this by getting honest about the true nature of our behaviors. When we fight someone else’s fight, aren’t we really fighting for that wounded part of us that remains unhealed? When we feel their pain and hang onto it, aren’t we really feeling our own childhood trauma?
Often the best way to help others is to let them learn how to stand up for themselves. And the best way to help ourselves is to be aware of what we’re doing and why we’re doing it. When we focus too much on someone else’s fight, we realize that it’s because we have unresolved issues.
On this day I will be clear about my motives before I look outside of myself to take action.
July 28 Vulnerability
“To withstand the intense pain of living with insanity and to have any sense of control we must deny our feelings and hide our vulnerability.” BRB p. 356
As we grew up we were shattered into many parts. Because of the insanity around us, we learn to hide our more vulnerable parts in order to survive. Some of us became multiple personalities and others of us were less broken, but we all found ourselves numb in some way. We adapted and adopted whatever survival techniques we needed.
In ACA recovery it can take time for some of our hidden parts to make themselves known - until they trust there is an inner loving parent who accepts them.
We work with our recovery partners and discover how to give ourselves the warmth, love, compassion and understanding we didn’t experience as children. As we comfort and protect our Inner Child, we make healing our priority as we learn to quiet ourselves to see what feelings come up – what memories resurface.
To help ensure that the rooms of recovery are available for ourselves and others, you can also begin to get service in our meetings in small ways. You see that our honesty can encourage others to face their own fears as we learn together how to experience balance in our lives.
On this day I will listen to and comfort my Inner Child, accepting all of the parts of myself that make me unique. I look forward to who I can become as I heal.
[08:50, 29/07/2020] HUMANBEAN: July 29

PTSD

“PTSD symptoms can include hypervigilance or the constant monitoring of one’s surroundings for potential threat of harm.“ BRB p. 345

Many of us have few concrete memories of childhood. We know we lived through amazing trauma, but if we are asked what happened to us, we often have few examples to relate. We may have defining moments that we remember, but we also have years of “blanks.” Some memories we do have were related by our siblings. 

We repressed our memories as a protection mechanism. But when we arrive in ACA, we try to locate them because they’re the key to much of our dysfunctional behavior. Some behavior, such as hypervigilance, seems inexplicable in its intensity. We can even be sitting with our recovery friends, perhaps in a meeting, and we can’t seem to let go of monitoring everything that’s going on. What we might have previously labeled as a highly overdeveloped sense of responsibility is more likely PTSD.

As we work our program and become willing to uncover our trauma, we begin to free ourselves from the heightened state of awareness that wears us out and causes problems in our relationships. We unbury memories that have gotten us to this state, often with the help of therapy, and by sharing our story and listening to others in meetings.

On this day I will not be afraid to uncover the memories that seem to bind me to my dysfunctional behaviors.
+34 656 78 84 20 changed to +34 658 57 05 48
July 30

“In ACA, we learn to give for the right reason, and we learn the right amount to give. We give our fair share and let others give their fair share, so we all take ownership in ACA.“ BRB p. 524

At ACA meetings the Seventh Tradition reminds us that we contribute as we are able. There was a time when a quarter was thought to be enough. As times changed, a dollar seemed about right. More recently, two dollars has become more the norm.

As the fellowship grows, the need for financial contributions from members may also grow. Some groups pay higher rents and may ask members to contribute more if they can. However, this is not obligatory and never a requirement for membership.

Financial contributions support not only individual meetings, but also local Intergroup and the World Service Organization (WSO), which spreads our message around the globe. The WSO hires special workers for its literature distribution center. Translations have to be verified, books printed and shipped. Much occurs behind the scenes to make carrying the ACA message possible.

Like other 12 Step fellowships, ACA does not depend on anyone else to take care of our “house.” Being fully self-supporting, we do not owe outside interests, so no one tells us where or how to carry our message.

On this day I will give the financial contribution I can so that the meetings I attend will thrive. I do my part to ensure that the ACA message is available to the still-suffering adult children of my community and around the world.
July 31

Isolation

“Our experience shows that you cannot recover in isolation.“ BRB p. 127

Many of our childhood memories center around the isolation we felt in our homes while growing up. We may have had few or no childhood friends. To have friends could have placed us in a position where they would want to come to our house — and we couldn’t risk that.

The lack of close friendships deepened the sadness and loneliness we already faced on a regular basis. That loneliness also affected us as adults where many of us felt a social awkwardness that fueled both addiction and isolation.

We experienced the feeling of being alone, even in a crowd; and we felt lonely, even when we were in a relationship. Fear of failure, lack of trust, and fear of abandonment compounded things by leading many of us to choose others who also lacked the skills to have a healthy relationship.

Attending ACA meetings is the first step in breaking the pattern of loneliness and isolation. As we keep coming back, we are amazed to hear our own stories coming out of the mouths of others in the room. We realize we don’t have to be alone in our despair; we have found people who will love and accept us, even before we can love and accept ourselves. In ACA we are home, maybe for the first time in our lives.

On this day I will allow my fellow travelers to touch my life and know they will support me through my journey.
August 1

Gratitude

“The gratitude we feel is limitless.” BRB p. 292

Often we may have said or thought to ourselves at a meeting, “I had so much going on that I almost didn’t come, but I am so grateful I did because I heard just what I needed.“ As our recovery progresses, we are thankful for what may seem to some of us like divine timing. We feel grateful for the right meeting topic at the best possible moment. Often a fellow traveler with just the right message will show up when we are ready, or perhaps the message has been there all along and we’re finally ready to hear it. Sometimes we may see a person only once, but what they say or demonstrate is exactly what hits home for us at that moment.

All around us we begin to notice our needs are being met when we’re ready to recognize what is being placed before us. We may even be lucky enough to receive something we just want. Whatever we receive, it will be a gift.

If something is presented that we don’t want or need, we have the choice to let it go and turn it over. Sometimes we are just meant to have the information so we can pass it on to someone else who needs that very gift. 

On this day I am aware of the wonderful gifts that appear when I need them. I am grateful for the opportunities they present for personal growth.
August 2
Dissociation
“Another form of not being in the body involves dissociation or “leaving the body.’” BRB p. 269
As kids, we may have gotten into big trouble when we showed how we felt. So many of us taught our little faces and voices and bodies NOT to show emotion. We may have eventually learned to disconnect from our feelings even before they surfaced. We knew we had to live physically in our bodies, but we could refuse to listen to what our bodies were trying to tell us. Some of us became so dissociated that we even looked at others to know when to smile or frown. We had lost our identities in the process.
When we found ACA, we heard dissociation described as a disconnection from our feelings, thoughts, body needs and other parts of ourselves. We also learned that childhood trauma was the cause.
At meetings, when we heard others say they felt numb, empty or dead inside, we may have identified because of our own trauma and disconnect. We heard that change is possible, but it requires work.
When we make the commitment to ourselves, our feelings start to show up; they may be strong and come in large quantities. It’s scary, but we have the support of other ACAs. Working the program, and learning to trust in a Higher Power, helps us restore our True Selves. We accept our feelings and become who we were meant to be.
On this day I will pause, find a quiet place to sit, and breathe whenever I feel disconnected from myself. I will maintain conscious contact with my Higher Power... and myself.
August 3

Step Eight

“Made a list of all persons we had harmed and became willing to make amends to them all.“ BRB p. 227

Making an amends list is part of wiping the slate clean for ourselves and walking into a new way of life. Many of us had been part of physically and emotionally unsafe relationships as adults, and we knew we eventually had to own our part in those relationships.

As we made our amends list, we were told to put ourselves first. In doing so, we thought about all the things we had lost, most importantly our childhoods, and what that meant for us. Even though we missed the stages of child development we were entitled to, we realize we could nurture ourselves and help make up for that loss. 

In making amends to ourselves, we acknowledge any self-harm we have done, including not forgiving ourselves for simply being human. Then we move on to amends to others, knowing we aren’t being asked to make amends to unsafe people. 

Taking Step Eight helps us grow spiritually and emotionally. Whatever amends we eventually make, it’s a healing process. As part of this process, we continue to work on the character defects that have placed us in the position of making amends in the first place. We go forward in confidence and love to whatever comes next. 

On this day I will stay current with the amends I owe myself, and then work with those I may owe others.
[08:57, 04/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 4

Spiritual, not Religious

“In ACA, we take a spiritual and not religious approach to healing the effects of being raised in a dysfunctional home.” BRB p. 76

The writers of the 12 Steps knew that, even though we claim to be spiritual, the use of the word “God” could be controversial.

When we hear the word “God“ in our meetings, some of us feel comforted, and some of us experience negativity and sadness. No matter what our reaction, it is important for us to remember that in ACA we unite around a spiritual foundation that allows us to believe what we choose.

Many of us grew up knowing a loving, supportive God, and many of us grew up with a punishing God. No matter what beliefs we had in childhood, we often found a different understanding as adults. In many cases, we continue to search for a path that feels comfortable.

Spiritual, not religious means that our fellowship recognizes there are many belief systems, and the cloak of spirituality allows us to be equals in our recovery. No one of us knows the right answer for anyone else. There is no one right way to believe, and we respect each other’s differences, even while we unconditionally support each other.

On this day, while I seek to strengthen my spiritual belief, I practice tolerance for beliefs that differ from mine.
HUMANBEAN added +49 160 7507935
+49 177 7092312 joined via an invite link
+49 160 94668921 left
[10:52, 05/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 5

Tolerating Pain

“The level of pain that adult children can tolerate without admitting they have hit a bottom is astonishing.” BRB p. 68

We learned to live with pain as children and continued to do so as adults. When faced with the pain of toxic relationships, we slip into survival mode to avoid the uncertainty of change.

We know that our lives are in chaos, that we accept the unacceptable from the people around us, and that we have no reason to expect tomorrow to be better. Yet we trudge through each day, often with a pain so deep it feels out of reach. 

Everyone who has walked into ACA has felt the apprehension that comes with change. Often, fear of change is so strong that we can still convince ourselves that things aren’t that bad. 

We are all creatures of habit, even when those habits are harmful to us. ACA is the first step in saying our lives are out of control and we need help. The question is, do you want to live a life that “isn’t that bad,” or do we have the faith in our Higher Power, in our program, and in ourselves to overcome the fear of change?

We do not have to do this alone. Our fellow travelers are more than willing to take the journey with us.

On this day I will reach out my hand to end the cycle of pain and know there will be someone there to hold onto.
+1 (718) 757-2366 left
August 6

Therapy

“A good therapist should ask you about trauma and abuse, including child sexual abuse, if there are clear indicators of family history, acting-out behavior, records, or other discernible factors.” BRB p. 462

Some of us have been in therapy with people who mirrored our abusive parents. They told us that our childhood sexual abuse was no big deal because what happened to children at a young age doesn’t really affect them. We sometimes even allowed them to sexually abuse us in the course of therapy.

We realize that there are a lot of good therapists out there, but not all of them are safe. We do not let this stop us from getting the right help. We learn how to set boundaries with the people who work for us, including those who seem like they are in a position of authority over us. We stop trying to please others. We allow ourselves the space to see what we need, but we check first to see if it’s safe to talk.

When a therapist isn’t working for us, we allow ourselves to explore other options. We stopped going back to poisoned wells, we are reparenting ourselves with love. We learn to take the power back, the power that was stolen from us in childhood. We trust our instincts because we have created safe boundaries in which to allow them to be revealed.

On this day I will ask as many questions as I need to, no matter what the situation. If I’m not satisfied with the answers, I will explore other options.
HUMANBEAN added +1 (503) 290-4019
[11:29, 08/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 7

Unconditional Love

“The child feels he must perform or do well to earn a parent’s love.” BRB p. 30

For many of us, we had to perform appropriately to get any feeling of love or acceptance as children. But conditional love was the only love, if any, that we received. Many times the conditions were as dysfunctional as the love, and often they changed from day to day. We heard people talk of unconditional love, but many of us didn’t think that it really existed.

In ACA, when we listen to the voices in our heads that tell us we’re not good enough, we understand this is our inner critic. It’s no longer our parent’s voice, but our own, repeating the negative words spoken to us as children. But how did this happen? We weren’t going to be like our parents. But here we are telling ourselves the very words that cut us like a knife when we were vulnerable children.

Once we see the harm we are doing to ourselves and know why it’s happening, the ACA program helps us replace negative words with positive affirmations. We can give ourselves the unconditional love that was denied us as children. We don’t have to please anyone to get it. The cycle of pain is ending. We are now free to face life with a positive frame of mind, getting ready to give the blessing of unconditional love to others.

On this day I give myself unconditional love and acceptance. In doing so, I will then truly be able to accept and love others.
[11:29, 08/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 8

Trait Nine

“We confuse love and pity and tend to ‘love’ people we can ‘pity’ and ‘rescue.’” BRB p. 12

In many aspects of our lives we are drawn to the familiar, not because it is good for us, but because it is more comfortable than change. The fact is that as much as many of us protest we are drawn to other dysfunctional people. The reason for this attraction is very likely a deep sense of shame many of us carry from our childhood that we keep as our well-guarded secret. The message of this shame is that we are not “good enough,“ because as children we did not feel valued for who we were. 

Only by entering into relationships with other sick people will our secret be secure in the chaos of the dysfunctional. We can focus on them and rescue them, which often makes them want us more - at least for a while.

As we gain self-respect in ACA, these innate attractions start to disappear because we realize we are not getting our needs met. As we change, and as hard as it can seem at first, we may have to leave some relationships behind if the other people are not willing to change also. In doing so, we learn to reject the notion that this is somehow selfish. That is codependent thinking that is not fair to anyone, least of all ourselves.

On this day, with the help of my Higher Power, I choose healthy people to be part of my life, people who are willing to embrace the new me.
August 9

Shame and Blame

“As ACA becomes a safe place for you, you will find freedom to express all the hurt and fears you have kept inside and to free yourself from the shame and blame that are carryovers from the past.“ BRB p. 590

The cycle of shame and blame was well-established in our families of origin. We heard abusive words and/or were physically punished. We emerged from all of this with an established sense of shame that included thinking of ourselves as:

• Defective: something is wrong with me
• Helpless: nothing can be done about this
• Alone: nobody else has this problem

As adults, some of us found that if we shifted blame to others, we could hide our own sense of shame. Some of us may have lashed out with extreme anger, not knowing where it came from, or used perfectionism, pride, people-pleasing, and approval-seeking to cover up our sense of shame. Some of us fell victim to addictions.

In ACA, we come to appreciate that there is nothing wrong with us that meetings, a sponsor and consistently working the Steps cannot overcome. Shame and blame give way to an understanding that we make mistakes, but we are not mistakes! We claim the identity that we are inherently good, even with all our perceived misgivings, warts and dents.

On this day I will use my courage and honesty to break the generational bonds of shame and blame.
[09:45, 10/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 10

Our Past is an Asset

“Our experience tells us that our past can be our greatest asset if we are willing to ask for help and do the work to find out what happened.“ BRB p. 153

We sometimes wonder how differently we could have turned out had we been raised without the problems of alcoholism or family dysfunction. While it is normal for us to consider “what ifs,” we know that when we work through the abuse and hardship of our childhoods, we can come out so much better on the other side. 

But what can possibly make our past an asset? In recovery, we see that all we’ve been through provides us a unique opportunity to look deeper at our lives than we might have otherwise. We take on the task of untangling the web of our history, knowing that greater peace will result. We revisit old wounds so that we may finally heal the hurt and better understand our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors today. We are able to reclaim our inner strength and learn from our struggles. 

In ACA we don’t do all of this work alone. We may have been alone as children, but now we have our fellow travelers. We hear them share the same pain, and see the wisdom and knowledge they’ve gained in their own recovery. This same wisdom and knowledge is becoming part of who we are, also. 

On this day I recognize that my past provides a unique opportunity to grow in self-actualization. I look forward to the continual wisdom recovery offers.
+49 1522 9720242 added +49 176 61137791
+49 1522 9720242 added +353 86 172 6417
+49 176 61137791 changed to +49 174 5420818
[09:18, 11/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 11

True Self

“While the Inner Child or True Self can be the spark of our creativity, we must also remember the child is a deeply hurt part of ourselves.“ BRB p. 303

Many of us have pursued an understanding of our True Self, awakening our Inner Child and expressing our creativity in hopes of relieving ourselves from suffering. Yet we face an obstacle — a persistent and harsh self-judgment that we can’t seem to stop. This underlying thinking compels us to continue dysfunctional and addictive behaviors. We wonder why we can’t get out from under this “curse-like“ self-sabotage and realize the promise of our True Self. 

We learn in ACA to get in touch with and to feel the pain and grief of the deeply hurt parts of ourselves in order for the True Self to blossom. We’ve avoided this for years, usually unconsciously, and we’ve suffered the consequences of this avoidance. We’ve come to see that we won’t enjoy the fulfillment of living as our True Selves until we face and get free from the roots of the wounded parts from childhood. 

With our Higher Power’s help, and support from our fellow travelers, we practice a gentle and gradual process of peeling the layers of the onion to find the core of our pain and, paradoxically, to find the joy of our True Self. It’s an organic process unique to each of us, yet we’re supported in a unified approach that integrates the Steps, our Higher Power, and our Inner Child.

On this day I have the courage to face what’s necessary so I can realize the promise of my True Self.
HUMANBEAN added +1 (510) 387-3143
[09:02, 12/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 12
Reparenting
“The need to reparent ourselves comes from our efforts to feel safe as children.” BRB p. 83
Because of our dysfunctional childhoods, we usually see things differently than others. We don’t feel all warm and fuzzy when we see a TV commercial where the salesperson loudly exclaims, “Come on in. We’ll treat you like a family!“ In our minds, that doesn’t sound like such a good thing, because our families weren’t safe. And when we feel compelled to buy a greeting card for a parent, we can find something in the humor section rather than choose one that gushes with gratitude. But underneath the humor, there is a deep sadness.
In ACA, we learn to recognize the reality of our feelings. We make a choice that instead of remaining under the layers of dysfunction, we will take positive steps to reparent ourselves using the tools of ACA. These steps and the path we’re on may not always be crystal clear, but we keep coming back until we find where we need to go. Along the way, we grieve the loss of what might have been. And we work towards someday getting to a place of forgiveness, which will help us far more than anything else.
On this day I honor my feelings and the reality of what was in order to choose a new way of living and reparenting myself.
+49 176 36301535 left
[08:25, 13/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 13

Language

“We recognize a spectrum that transcends language and trauma. We recognize the light in ourselves and others.“ BRB p. 438

In our dysfunctional families, many of us held our heads down because we consistently heard language that was meant to shame us. We were told things like, “I’ll give you something to cry about,” “Who do you think you are — something special?” “If you can’t do it right, don’t do it at all!” “What are you — stupid?” And “Can’t you do any better than that?” These negatives became so ingrained in us that we still hear them inside our heads from our critical inner parent. 

In ACA, we learn to hold our heads high as we hear different, affirming messages, like “One Day at a Time,“ “First Things First,“ “Easy Does It“ and “Keep It Simple.“ They remind us to be gentle with ourselves. 

As we recover from the hurtful language of our childhoods, we start by acknowledging the harm it has done. We affirm that we are not defined by these shaming words as we tell ourselves that crying is okay, that we are special human beings, that we don’t have to be perfect, and that we all make mistakes — it’s what makes us human. These positive assurances help us finally explore who we were meant to be. And as we heal, we are able to provide similar assurances to others. 

On this day I will make a conscious effort to think only positive things about myself and my abilities as I learn to undo the damage of the past.
loida changed their phone number to a new number.
August 14

Disease of Alcoholism

“If your parents did not drink, your grandparents may have drank and passed on the disease of family dysfunction to your parents. If alcohol or drugs were not a problem, your home may have been chaotic, unsafe, and lacking nurture like many alcoholic homes.” BRB p. 18

Great! Granny did it to Mom and Mom did it to us! What chance do we have of being able to get well?

Even though this was passed down through the generations until it finally got to us, and perhaps to our children and grandchildren, who do we blame? Can we really blame Mom or Granny or even Great Granny? Indeed, none of them intended to pass this baggage down to us. But here it is: ours to unpack.

Fortunately, we have the best chance of them all to do something about it. Today we have a much better understanding of the multigenerational nature of trauma transmission. And this understanding is constantly evolving. We are fortunate to be part of a wonderful human experiment to reverse the effects of generational family dysfunction and achieve emotional sobriety. 

Like most experiments, we start with a promise: that we can build a life of stability, safety and nurturing. As we toil in the laboratory of our lives in recovery, we find just the right mixture of experience, analysis and spiritual principles, and issue daily progress reports to our fellow travelers and our Higher Power.

On this day I will note the progress I have made in finding my emotional balance, and give myself the privilege of believing I can and will recover.
August 15

Promise Eight

“We will choose to love people who can love and be responsible for themselves.” BRB p. 591

Prior to coming to ACA, we had been unconscious about a great many things. Perhaps the most painful was our unconscious choice of the people we thought we loved. 

As children, we wanted to love our parents. So we overlooked their dysfunction as a way to make them lovable. After all, the alternative was to see them as they really were and leave — a choice that is rarely possible for a child.

As adults, we continued to make unconscious choices to love other dysfunctional people until one day we got it. Something was terribly familiar about the people we had chosen to love. It was déjà vu, all over again. 

As we come to consciousness about our childhood experiences and do the work in ACA, we begin to love and accept our True Self. Only then are we capable of having healthy relationships with others. We begin to choose people who are capable of truly loving us, and who take responsibility for themselves. We are now willing to share our True Self, the person we were meant to be, the one who is able to love responsibly in return.

On this day I will examine my relationships, both past and present, to help me understand the choices I have made. I will begin to share my True Self with others in my life so that I may find the love I deserve.
August 16

Service and Healing

“The healing we receive by giving service in ACA removes our deep feelings of inferiority in giving and receiving love. Our sense of inadequacy begins to disappear when we see the value of the service we give.“ BRB p. 363

In a myriad of ways most of us were taught that we were inferior. Our perceptions were challenged. Our feelings were denied. Our thoughts were overpowered by the dysfunction in our families.

As we “come to” in ACA, we realize that our perceptions, feelings and thoughts are being respected because they are true for us. Through regular attendance at meetings, we slowly develop the knowledge that we are not inferior, and begin sharing in working the steps with a fellow traveler.

At some point we notice that others chip in to make this miracle possible by doing service to keep the meeting strong. This is where part of the magic of recovery happens: in one instant we are lost, and in the next we become able to help by doing service work for ourselves for the group.

Seeing new members attend their first meetings and then seeing them as they begin to “come to“ brings us joy and makes any level of service we can give an act of love that reflects our love of our True Selves. 

On this day I will recall my first days in ACA and the comfort I found. As I am ready and able to do so, I will continue the tradition of freely giving service to help ensure that what I have received is available to others.
August 17

Choice

“We learn that real choice is God’s gift to us for letting go.” BRB p. 155

As children, we may have felt trapped in an unhappy home life because we had no control over a parent’s drinking or other family dysfunction. We carry this feeling into adulthood, often feeling like victims of circumstance or of people who trigger in us painful childhood memories. 

In Step Three, we may be confused about what it means to turn our will over to our Higher Power — that without our will we will be trapped with no options. We worry that we will be giving away our power. In reality we are giving over our controlling nature to our Higher Power.

As we learn to focus on what is within our control, namely ourselves, and let go of control over other people, places, and things, we open ourselves up to more choice. We learn that we can choose our actions in situations, rather than reacting and feeling like a victim. We can let our Higher Power take over what is not ours to control. This frees us to begin making life-affirming choices.

On this day I give what I am not meant to control over to the care of my Higher Power. In its place I feel a greater freedom of choice than I have ever felt before.
[08:49, 18/08/2020] HUMANBEAN: August 18

Willingness

“With willingness we are well on our way to recovery.” BRB p. 50

In the rooms of recovery, we learn to use the acronym HOW: Honest, Open-minded, and Willing. In ACA, we need to be all three. However, willingness may well be the key to doing the work it takes to achieve the results we seek. 

There is a big difference between wanting something and being willing to do the work together. Most of us have spent our life up to this point wanting things: higher self-esteem, less anxiety, and a family that loves us unconditionally. 

So we enter the ACA program with a mental list of what we want. But are we willing to put forth the effort to recover? We make time for others, for work, for recreational activities, but making time for ourselves may be a foreign concept. 

In ACA, the only person we are trying to change is ourselves. The way to make that happen is to make the time for it to happen — to be willing to put ourselves on our schedule, maybe for the first time in our lives. 

On this day I will focus on changing my “want” list to include being willing to spend time on myself and my program.
+1 (312) 843-4933 joined via an invite link
+1 (917) 848-7689 joined via an invite link
+44 7944 611731 joined via an invite link
+64 22 543 0155 joined via an invite link
+44 7760 184327 joined via an invite link
+44 7476 851599 joined via an invite link
August 19

Emotional Sobriety

“With emotional sobriety, reparenting ourselves becomes a reality in our lives.” BRB p. 265

Our program calls us to recognize the truth within us. A beginning truth is that our families, in their unfinished spiritual states, corrupted our thinking. As young children, we could relate to no one other than our families to ‘see how the world was’ around us. 

This often involved a series of dysfunctional beliefs, such as “I can make it on my own,“ “I’m too proud to accept help from anyone,“ and/or “we are s-o-o-o-o much better than they are.“ This led us to a false sense of independence or even superiority that effectively cut us off from many forms of useful information that could have helped us. 

As adults, we lived with this corrupted thinking, in a state of confusion and denial, unable to admit that we needed help and unable to trust anyone. 

When we find recovery in ACA, we discover that we can reparent ourselves. We learn to see the truth about our parents in a nonjudgmental way, which helps us first accept whatever good things they passed to us. Then, without anger or resentment, we firmly rejected their dysfunctional ways of thinking. We are now free to chart our own course of behavioral, spiritual and emotional sobriety. 

On this day I will focus on using all I’ve learned in ACA to help me reparent myself. I choose spiritual and emotional sobriety.
