{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "1",
"title": "HEALING HEART AND MIND",
"quote": "Admitted to God, to ourselves, and to another human being
the exact nature of our wrongs.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 55",
"reading": "Since it is true that God comes to me through people, I can
see that by keeping people at a distance I also keep God at
a distance. God is nearer to me than I think and I can
experience Him by loving people and allowing people to
love me. But I can neither love nor be loved if I allow my
secrets to get in the way.
It's the side of myself that I refuse to look at that rules
me. I must be willing to look at the dark side in order to
heal my mind and heart because that is the road to freedom.
I must walk into darkness to find the light and walk into
fear to find peace.
By revealing my secrets—and thereby ridding myself of
guilt—I can actually change my thinking; by altering my
thinking, I can change myself. My thoughts create my
future. What I will be tomorrow"}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "2",
"title": "LIGHTING THE DARK PAST",
"quote": "Cling to the thought that, in God's hands, the dark past is
the greatest possession you have—the key to life and
happiness for others. With it you can avert death and
misery for them.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 124",
"reading": "No longer is my past an autobiography; it is a reference
book to be taken down, opened and shared. Today as I
report for duty, the most wonderful picture comes through.
For, though this day be dark— as some days must be—the
stars will shine even brighter later. My witness that they do
shine will be called for in the very near future. All my past
will this day be a part of me, because it is the key, not the
lock."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "3",
"title": "CLEANING HOUSE",
"quote": "Somehow, being alone with God doesn't seem as embarrassing
as facing up to another person. Until we
actually sit down and talk aloud about what we have so
long hidden, our willingness to clean house is still largely
theoretical.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 60",
"reading": "It wasn't unusual for me to talk to God, and myself, about
my character defects. But to sit down, face to face, and
openly discuss these intimacies with another person was
much more difficult. I recognized in the experience,
however, a similar relief to the one I had experienced when
I first admitted I was an alcoholic. I began to appreciate the
spiritual significance of the program and that this Step was
just an introduction to what was yet to come in the
remaining seven Steps."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "4",
"title": "'ENTIRELY HONEST'",
"quote": "We must be entirely honest with somebody if we expect to
live long or happily in this world.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 73",-74
Honesty, like all virtues, is to be shared. It began after I
shared '. . . [my] whole life's story with someone . . . '
in order to find my place in the Fellowship. Later I shared
my life in order to help the newcomer find his place with
us. This sharing helps me to learn honesty in all my
dealings and to know that God's plan for me comes true
through honest openness and willingness."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "5",
"title": "THE FOREST AND THE TREES",
"quote": ". . . what comes to us alone may be garbled by our own
rationalization and wishful thinking. The benefit of talking
to another person is that we can get his direct comment and
counsel on our situation. . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 60",
"reading": "I cannot count the times when I have been angry and
frustrated and said to myself, 'I can't see the forest for the
trees!' I finally realized that what I needed when I was in
such pain was someone who could guide me in separating
the forest and the trees; who could suggest a better path to
follow; who could assist me in putting out fires; and help
me avoid the rocks and pitfalls.
I ask God, when I'm in the forest, to give me the courage
to call upon a member of A.A."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "6",
"title": "'HOLD BACK NOTHING'",
"quote": "The real tests of the situation are your own willingness to
confide and your full confidence in the one with whom you
share your first accurate self-survey. . . . Provided you hold
back nothing, your sense of relief will mount from minute to
minute. The dammed-up emotions of years break out of
their confinement, and miraculously vanish as soon as they
are exposed. As the pain subsides, a healing tranquility
takes its place.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 61",-62
A tiny kernel of locked-in feelings began to unfold when I
first attended A.A. meetings and self-knowledge then
became a learning task for me. This new self-understanding
brought about a change in my responses to life's situations.
I realized I had the right to make choices in my life, and the
inner dictatorship of habits slowly lost its grip.
I believe that if I seek God I can find a better way to live
and I ask Him daily to assist me in living a sober life."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "7",
"title": "RESPECT FOR OTHERS",
"quote": "Such parts of our story we tell to someone who will
understand, yet be unaffected. The rule is we must be hard
on ourself, but always considerate of others.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 74",
"reading": "Respect for others is the lesson that I take out of this
passage. I must go to any lengths to free myself if I wish to
find that peace of mind that I have sought for so long.
However, none of this must be done at another's expense.
Selfishness has no place in the A.A. way of life.
When I take the Fifth Step it's wiser to choose a person
with whom I share common aims because if that person
does not understand me, my spiritual progress may be
delayed and I could be in danger of a relapse. So I ask for
divine guidance before choosing the man or woman whom
I take into my confidence. 
MAY 8 ________________________________________
A RESTING PLACE
All of A.A. 's Twelve Steps ask us to go contrary to our
natural desires . . . they all deflate our egos. When it comes
to ego deflation, few Steps are harder to take than Five. But
scarcely any Step is more necessary to longtime sobriety
and peace of mind than this one.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 55",
"reading": "After writing down my character defects, I was unwilling to
talk about them, and decided it was time to stop carrying
this burden alone. I needed to confess those defects to
someone else. I had read—and been told—I could not stay
sober unless I did. Step Five provided me with a feeling of
belonging, with humility and serenity when I practiced it in
my daily living. It was important to admit my defects of
character in the order presented in Step Five: 'to God, to
ourselves and to another human being.' Admitting to God
first paved the way for admission to myself and to another
person. As the taking of the Step is described, a feeling of
being at one with God and my fellow man brought me to a
resting place where I could prepare myself for the remaining
Steps toward a full and meaningful sobriety."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "9",
"title": "WALKING THROUGH FEAR",
"quote": "If we still cling to something we will not let go, we ask God
to help us be willing.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "When I had taken my Fifth Step, I became aware that all my
defects of character stemmed from my need to feel secure
and loved. To use my will alone to work on them would have
been trying obsessively to solve the problem. In the Sixth
Step I intensified the action I had taken in the first three
Steps—meditating on the Step by saying it over and over,
going to meetings, following my sponsor's suggestions,
reading and searching within myself. During the first three
years of sobriety I had a fear of entering an elevator alone.
One day I decided I must walk through this fear. I asked for
God's help, entered the elevator, and there in the corner was
a lady crying. She said that since her husband had died she
was deathly afraid of elevators. I forgot my fear and
comforted her. This spiritual experience helped me to see
how willingness was the key to working the rest of the
Twelve Steps to recovery. God helps those who help
themselves."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
  "day": "10",
  "title": "FREE AT LAST",
  "quote": "Another great dividend we may expect from confiding our
defects to another human being is humility —a word often
misunderstood. . . . it amounts to a clear recognition of
what and who we really are, followed by a sincere attempt
to become what we could be.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 58",
"reading": "I knew deep inside that if I were ever to be joyous, happy
and free, I had to share my past life with some other
individual. The joy and relief I experienced after doing so
were beyond description. Almost immediately after taking
the Fifth Step, I felt free from the bondage of self and the
bondage of alcohol. That freedom remains after 36 years, a
day at a time. I found that God could do for me what I
couldn't do for myself."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "11",
"title": "A NEW SENSE OF BELONGING",
"quote": "ntil we had talked with complete candor of our conflicts,
and had listened to someone else do the same thing, we still
didn't belong.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 57",
"reading": "After four years in A.A. I was able to discover the freedom
from the burden of buried emotions that had caused me so
much pain. With the help of A.A., and extra counseling, the
pain was released and I felt a complete sense of belonging
and peace. I also felt a joy and a love of God that I had
never experienced before. I am in awe of the power of Step
Five."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "12",
"title": "THE PAST IS OVER",
"quote": ".A. experience has taught us we cannot live alone with
our pressing problems and the character defects which
cause or aggravate them. If. . . Step Four . . . has revealed
in stark relief those experiences we'd rather not remember .
. . then the need to quit living by ourselves with those
tormenting ghosts of yesterday gets more urgent than ever.
We have to talk to somebody about them.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 55",
"reading": "Whatever is done is over. It cannot be changed. But my
attitude about it can be changed through talking with those
who have gone before and with sponsors. I can wish the
past never was, but if I change my actions in regard to what
I have done, my attitude will change. I won't have to wish
the past away. I can change my feelings and attitudes, but
only through my actions and the help of my fellow
alcoholics."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "13",
THE EASIER, SOFTER WAY
If we skip this vital step, we may not overcome drinking.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 72",
"reading": "I certainly didn't leap at the opportunity to face who I was,
especially when the pains of my drinking days hung over
me like a dark cloud. But I soon heard at the meetings
about the fellow member who just didn't want to take Step
Five and kept coming back to meetings, trembling from the
horrors of reliving his past. The easier, softer way is to take
these Steps to freedom from our fatal disease, and to put
our faith in the Fellowship and our Higher Power."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "14",
IT'S OKAY TO BE ME
Time after time newcomers have tried to keep to themselves
certain facts about their lives. . . . they have turned to
easier methods. . . . But they had not learned enough
humility. . . .",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 72-73",
"reading": "Humility sounds so much like humiliation, but it really is
the ability to look at myself—and honestly accept what I
find. I no longer need to be the 'smartest' or 'dumbest' or
any other 'est.' Finally, it is okay to be me. It is easier for
me to accept myself if I share my whole life. If I cannot
share in meetings, then I had better have a sponsor —
someone with whom I can share those 'certain facts' that
could lead me back to a drunk, to death. I need to take all
the Steps. I need the Fifth Step to learn true humility.
Easier methods do not work."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "15",
KNOW GOD; KNOW PEACE
It is plain that a life which includes deep resentment leads
only to futility and unhappiness. . . . But with the alcoholic,
whose hope is the maintenance and growth of a spiritual
experience, this business of resentment is infinitely grave.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 66",
"reading": "Know God;
Know peace.
No God; No
peace."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "16",
WE FORGIVE . . .
Often it was while working on this Step with our sponsors
or spiritual advisers that we first felt truly able to forgive
others, no matter how deeply we felt hey had wronged us.
Our moral inventory had persuaded us that all-round
forgiveness was desirable, but it was only when we
resolutely tackled Step Five hat we inwardly knew we'd be
able to receive forgiveness and give it, too.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 58",
"reading": "What a great feeling forgiveness is! What a revelation
about my emotional, psychological and spiritual nature.
All it takes is willingness to forgive; 5od will do the rest."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "17",
. . . AND FORGIVE
Under very trying conditions I have had, again and again,
to forgive others—also myself",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 268",
"reading": "Forgiveness of self and forgiveness of others are just two
currents in the same river, both hindered or shut off
completely by the dam of resentment. Once that dam is
lifted, both currents can flow. The Steps of A.A. allow me
to see how resentment has built up and subsequently
blocked off this flow in my life. The Steps provide a way
by which my resentments may—by the grace of God as I
understand Him— be lifted. It is as a result of this solution
that I can find the necessary grace which enables me to forgive
myself and others."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "18",
"title": "FREEDOM TO BE ME",
"quote": "f we are painstaking about this phase of our development,
we will be amazed before we are half way through. We are
going to know a new freedom and a new happiness",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 83",
"reading": "My first true freedom is the freedom not to have to take a
drink today. If I truly want it, I will work the Twelve Steps
and the happiness of this freedom will come to me through
the Steps—sometimes quickly, sometimes slowly. Other
freedoms will follow, and inventorying them is a new
happiness. I had a new freedom today, the freedom to be
me. I have the freedom to be the best me I have ever been."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "19",
"title": "GIVING WITHOUT STRINGS",
"quote": "nd he well knows that his own life has been made richer,
as an extra dividend of giving to another without any
demand for a return.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 69",
"reading": "The concept of giving without strings was hard to
understand when I first came into the program. I was
suspicious when others wanted to help me. I thought,
'What do they want in return?' But I soon learned the joy
of helping another alcoholic and I understood why they
were there for me in the beginning. My attitudes changed
and I wanted to help others. Sometimes I became anxious,
as I wanted them to know the joys of sobriety, that life can
be beautiful. When my life is full of a loving God of my
understanding and I give that love to my fellow alcoholic, I
feel a special richness that is hard to explain. 
MAY 20
ONE DAY AT A TIME
Above all, take it one day at a time.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 11",
"reading": "Why do I kid myself that I must stay away from a drink for
only one day, when I know perfectly well I must never
drink again as long as I live? I am not kidding myself
because one day at a time is probably the only way I can
reach the long-range objective of staying sober.
If I determine that I shall never drink again as long as I
live, I set myself up. How can I be sure I won't drink when
I have no idea what the future may hold?
On a day-at-a-time basis, I am confident I can stay away
from a drink for one day. So I set out with confidence. At
the end of the day, I have the reward of achievement.
Achievement feels good and that makes me want more! }
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "21",
"title": "A LIST OF BLESSINGS",
"quote": "ne exercise that I practice is to try for a full inventory of
my blessings. . . .",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 37",
"reading": "What did I have to be grateful for? I shut myself up and
started listing the blessings for which I was in no way
responsible, beginning with having been born of sound
mind and body. I went through seventy-four years of living
right up to the present moment. The list ran to two pages,
and took two hours to compile; I included health, family,
money, A.A. —the whole gamut.
Every day in my prayers, I ask God to help me
remember my list, and to be grateful for it throughout the
day. When I remember my gratitude list, it's very hard to
conclude that God is picking on me."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "22",
"title": "STEP ONE",
"quote": "E . . . (The first word of the First Step)",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 21",
"reading": "When I was drinking all I could ever think about was 'I, I,
I,' or 'Me, Me, Me.' Such painful obsession of self, such
soul sickness, such spiritual selfishness bound me to the
bottle for more than half my life.
The journey to find God and to do His will one day at a
time began with the first word of the First Step . . . 'We.'
There was power in numbers, there was strength in
numbers, there was safety in numbers, and for an alcoholic
like me, there was life in numbers. If I had tried to recover
alone I probably would have died. With God and another
alcoholic I have a divine purpose in my life . . . I have
become a channel for God's healing love."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "23",
"title": "SPIRITUAL HEALTH",
"quote": "hen the spiritual malady is overcome, we straighten out
mentally and physically.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 64",
"reading": "It is very difficult for me to come to terms with my
spiritual illness because of my great pride, disguised by my
material successes and my intellectual power. Intelligence
is not incompatible with humility, provided I place
humility first. To seek prestige and wealth is the ultimate
goal for many in the modern world. To be fashionable and
to seem better than I really am is a spiritual illness.
To recognize and to admit my weaknesses is the
beginning of good spiritual health. It is a sign of spiritual
health to he able to ask God every day to enlighten me, to
recognize His will, and to have the strength to execute it.
My spiritual health is excellent when I realize that the
better I get, the more I discover how much help I need from
others."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "24",
'HAPPY, JOYOUS AND FREE'
We are sure God wants us to be happy, joyous, and free.
We cannot subscribe to the belief that this life is vale of
tears, though it once was just that for many f us. But it is
clear that we made our own misery, rod didn't do it. Avoid
then, the deliberate manufacture of misery, but if trouble
comes, cheerfully capitalize it as an opportunity to
demonstrate His omnipotence.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 133",
"reading": "For years I believed in a punishing God and blamed him
for my misery. I have learned that I must lay down the
'weapons' of self in order to pick up the 'tools' of the
A.A. program. I do not struggle with he program because
it is a gift and I have never struggled when receiving a gift.
If I sometimes keep MI struggling, it is because I'm still
hanging onto my old ideas and ' . . . the results are
nil.' }
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "25",
"title": "PROGRESSIVE GRATITUDE",
"quote": "ratitude should go forward, rather than backward.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 29",
"reading": "I am very grateful that my Higher Power has given me a
second chance to live a worthwhile life. Through
Alcoholics Anonymous, I have been restored to sanity. The
promises are being fulfilled in my life. I am grateful to be
free from the slavery of alcohol. I am grateful for peace of
mind and the opportunity to grow, but my gratitude should
go forward rather than backward. I cannot stay sober on
yesterday's meetings or past Twelfth-Step calls; I need to
put my gratitude into action today. Our co-founder said our
gratitude can best be shown by carrying the message to
others. Without action, my gratitude is just a pleasant
emotion. I need to put it into action by working Step
Twelve, by carrying the message and practicing the
principles in all my affairs. I am grateful for the chance to
carry the message today! }
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "26",
"title": "TURNING NEGATIVE TO POSITIVE",
"quote": "ur spiritual and emotional growth in A.A. does not depend
so deeply upon success as it does upon our failures and
setbacks. If you will bear this in mind, I think that your slip
will have the effect of kicking you upstairs, instead of down.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 184",
"reading": "In keeping with the pain and adversity which our founders
encountered and overcame in establishing A.A., Bill W.
sent us a clear message: a relapse can provide a positive
experience toward abstinence and a lifetime of recovery. A
relapse brings truth to what we hear repeatedly in
meetings—'Don't take that first drink!' It reinforces the
belief in the progressive nature of the disease, and it drives
home the need for, and beauty of, humility in our spiritual
program. Simple truths come in complicated ways to me
when I become ego driven."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "27",
"title": "NO MAUDLIN GUILT",
"quote": "ay by day, we try to move a little toward God's perfection.
So we need not be consumed by maudlin guilt. . . .",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 15",
"reading": "When I first discovered that there is not a single 'don't' in
the Twelve Steps of A.A., I was disturbed because this
discovery swung open a giant portal. Only then was I able
to realize what A.A. is for me:
A.A. is not a program of 'don'ts, but of 'do's.' A.A. is not
martial law; it is freedom. A.A. is not tears over defects,
but sweat over fixing them. A.A. is not penitence; it is
salvation. A.A. is not 'Woe to me' for my sins, past
and present. A.A. is 'Praise God' for the progress I am
making today."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "28",
"title": "EQUAL RIGHTS",
"quote": "t one time or another most A.A. groups go on rulemaking
benders. . . . After a time fear and intolerance subside, [and
we realize] We do not wish to deny anyone his chance to
recover from alcoholism. We wish to be just as inclusive as
we can, never exclusive.
'A.A. TRADITION: HOW IT DEVELOPED,' pp. 10, 11, 12
A.A. offered me complete freedom and accepted me into
the Fellowship for myself. Membership did not depend
upon conformity, financial success or education and I am
so grateful for that. I often ask myself if I extend the same
equality to others or if I deny them the freedom to be
different. Today I try to replace my fear and intolerance
with faith, patience, love and acceptance. I can bring these
strengths to my A.A. group, my home and my office. I
make an effort to bring my positive attitude everywhere
that I go.
I have neither the right, nor the responsibility, to judge
others. Depending on my attitude I can view newcomers to
A.A., family members and friends as menaces or as
teachers. When I think of some of my past judgments, it is
clear how my self-righteousness caused me spiritual harm}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "29",
"title": "TRUE TOLERANCE",
"quote": "he only requirement for A.A. membership is a desire to
stop drinking.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 139",
"reading": "I first heard the short form of the Third Tradition in the
Preamble. When I came to A.A. I could not accept myself,
my alcoholism, or a Higher Power. If there had been any
physical, mental, moral, or religious requirements for
membership, I would be dead today. Bill W. said in his
tape on the Traditions that the Third Tradition is a charter
for individual freedom. The most impressive thing to me
was the feeling of acceptance from members who were
practicing the Third Tradition by tolerating and accepting
me. I feel acceptance is love and love is God's will for us. 
MAY 30
OUR PRIMARY PURPOSE
The more A.A. sticks to its primary purpose, the greater
will be its helpful influence everywhere.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 109",
"reading": "It is with gratitude that I reflect on the early days of our
Fellowship and those wise and loving 'foresteppers' who
proclaimed that we should not be diverted from our primary
purpose, that of carrying the message to the alcoholic who
still suffers.
I desire to impart respect to those who labor in the field
of alcoholism, being ever mindful that A.A. endorses no
causes other than its own. I must remember that A.A. has
no monopoly on miracle-making and I remain humbly
grateful to a loving God who made A.A. possible."}
,
{ "month": "MAY",
"day": "31",
"title": "READINESS TO SERVE OTHERS",
"quote": " . . our Society has concluded that it has but one high
mission—to carry the A.A. message to those who don't
know there's a way out",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 151",
"reading": "The 'Light' to freedom shines bright on my fellow
alcoholics as each one of us challenges the other to grow.
The 'Steps' to self-improvement have small beginnings,
but each Step builds the 'ladder' out of the pit of despair to
new hope. Honesty becomes my 'tool' to unfurl the
'chains' which bound me. A sponsor, who is a caring
listener, can help me to truly hear the message guiding me
to freedom.
I ask God for the courage to live in such a way that the
Fellowship may be a testimony to His favor. This mission
frees me to share my gifts of wellness through a spirit of
readiness to serve others. 
}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "1",
"title": "A CHANGED OUTLOOK",
"quote": "Our whole attitude and outlook upon life will change.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "When I was drinking, my attitude was totally selfish,
totally self-centered; my pleasure and my comfort came
first. Now that I am sober, self-seeking has started to slip
away. My whole attitude toward life and other people is
changing. For me, the first 'A' in our name stands for
attitude. My attitude is changed by the second 'A' in our
name, which stands for action. By working the Steps,
attending meetings, and carrying the message, I can be restored
to sanity. Action is the magic word! With a positive,
helpful attitude and regular A.A. action, I can stay sober
and help others to achieve sobriety. My attitude now is that
I am willing to go to any length to stay sober! }
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "2",
"title": "THE UPWARD PATH",
"quote": "Here are the steps we took. . . .",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 59",
"reading": "These are the words that lead into the Twelve Steps. In
their direct simplicity they sweep aside all psychological
and philosophical considerations about the lightness of the
Steps. They describe what I did: I took the Steps and
sobriety was the result. These words do not imply that I
should walk the well-trodden path of those who went
before, but rather that there is a way for me to become
sober and that it is a way I shall have to find. It is a new
path, one that leads to infinite light at the top of the
mountain. The Steps advise me about the footholds that are
safe and about chasms to avoid. They provide me with the
tools I need during the many parts of the solitary journey of
my soul. When I speak of this journey, I share my
experience, strength and hope with others."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "3",
"title": "ON A WING AND A PRAYER",
"quote": ". . . we then look at Step Six. We have emphasized
willingness as being indispensable.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "Steps Four and Five were difficult, but worthwhile. Now I
was stuck on Step Six and, in despair, I picked up the Big
Book and read this passage. I was outside, praying for
willingness, when I raised my eyes and saw a huge bird
rising in the sky. I watched it suddenly give itself up to the
powerful air currents of the mountains. Swept along,
swooping and soaring, the bird did things seemingly impossible
for mortal birds to do. It was an inspiring example
of a fellow creature 'letting go' to a power greater than
itself. I realized that if the bird 'took back his will' and
tried to fly with less trust, on its power alone, it would spoil
its apparent free flight. That insight granted me the
willingness to pray the Seventh Step prayer.
It's not easy to know God's will in each circumstance. I
must search out and be ready for the currents, and that's
where prayer and meditation help! Because I am, of
myself, nothing, I ask God to grant me the knowledge of
His will and the power and courage to carry it out—today."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "4",
"title": "LETTING GO OF OUR OLD SELVES",
"quote": "Carefully reading the first five proposals we ask if we have
omitted anything for we are building an arch through
which we shall walk a free man at last. . . . Are we now
ready to let God remove from us all the things which we
have admitted are objectionable?
ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 75, 76
The Sixth Step is the last 'preparation' Step. Although I
have already used prayer extensively, I have made no
formal request of my Higher Power in the first Six Steps. I
have identified my problem, come to believe that there is a
solution, made a decision to seek this solution, and have
'cleaned house.' I now ask: Am I willing to live a life of
sobriety, of change, to let go of my old self? I must
determine if I am truly ready to change. I review what I
have done and become willing for God to remove all my
defects of character; for in the next Step, I will tell my
Creator I am willing and will ask for help. If I have been
thorough in the preparation of my foundation and feel that I
am willing to change, I am then ready to continue with the
next Step. 'If we still cling to something we will not let go,
we ask God to help us be willing.' (Alcoholics Anonymous,
p. 76) }
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "5",
ENTIRELY READY?
'This is the Step that separates the men from the boys
' . . . the difference between 'the boys and the men' is
the difference between striving for a self-determined
objective and for the perfect objective which is of God. . . .
It is suggested that we ought to become entirely willing to
aim toward perfection. . . . The moment we say, 'No,
never!' our minds close against the grace of God. . . . This
is the exact point at which we abandon limited objectives,
and move toward God's will for us
TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 63, 68, 69
Am I entirely ready to have God remove these defects of
character? Do I know at long last that I cannot save myself?
I have come to believe that I cannot. If I am unable, if my
best intentions go wrong, if my desires are selfishly
motivated and if my knowledge and will are limited—then
I am ready to embrace God's will for my life."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "6",
"title": "ALL WE DO IS TRY",
"quote": "Can He now take them all—every one?",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "In doing Step Six it helped me a lot to remember that I am
striving for 'spiritual progress.' Some of my character
defects may be with me for the rest of my life, but most
have been toned down or eliminated. All that Step Six asks
of me is to become willing to name my defects, claim them
as my own, and be willing to discard the ones I can, just for
today. As I grow in the program, many of my defects
become more objectionable to me than previously and,
therefore, I need to repeat Step Six so that I can become
happier with myself and maintain my serenity."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "7",
LONG-TERM HOPE
Since most of us are born with an abundance of natural
desires, it isn't strange that we often let these far exceed
their intended purpose. When they drive us blindly, or we
willfully demand that they supply us with more satisfactions
or pleasures than are possible or due us, that is the point at
which we depart from the degree of perfection that God
wishes for us here on earth. That is the measure of our
character defects, or, if you wish, of our sins.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 65",
"reading": "This is where long-term hope is born and perspective is
gained, both of the nature of my illness and the path of my
recovery. The beauty of A.A. lies in knowing that my life,
with God's help, will improve. The A.A. journey becomes
richer, the understanding becomes truth, the dreams become
realities—and today becomes forever.
As I step into the A.A. light, my heart fills with the
presence of God."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "8",
"title": "OPENING UP TO CHANGE",
"quote": "Self-searching is the means by which we bring new vision,
action, and grace to bear upon the dark and negative side
of our natures With it comes the development of that kind of
humility that makes it possible for us to receive God's help.
. . . we find that bit by bit we can discard the old life—the
one that did not work—for a new life that can and does
work under any conditions whatever.
AS BILL SEES IT, pp. 10, 8
I have been given a daily reprieve contingent upon my
spiritual condition, provided I seek progress, not perfection.
To become ready for change, I practice willingness,
opening myself to possibilities of change. If I realize there
are defects that hinder my usefulness in A.A. and toward
others, I become ready by meditating and receiving
direction. 'Some of us have tried to hold on to our old ideas
and the result was nil until we let go absolutely'
(Alcoholics Anonymous
"citation": ", p. 58",). To let go and let God, I
need only surrender my old ways to Him; I no longer fight
nor do I try to control, but simply believe that, with God's
help, I am changed and affirming this belief makes me
ready. I empty myself to be full of awareness, light, and
love, and I am ready to face each day with hope."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "9",
"title": "LIVING IN THE NOW",
"quote": "First, we try living in the now just in order to stay sober—
and it works Once the idea has become a part of our
thinking we find that living life in 24-hour segments is an
effective and satisfying way to handle many other matters
as well",
"citation": "LIVING SOBER, p. 7",
"reading": "'One Day At A Time.' To a newcomer this and other oneliners
of A.A. may seem ridiculous. The passwords of the
A.A. Fellowship can become lifelines in moments of
stress. Each day can be like a rose unfurling according to
the plan of a Power greater than myself. My program
should be planted in the right location, just as it will need
to be groomed, nourished, and protected from disease. My
planting will require patience, and my realizing that some
flowers will be more perfect than others. Each stage of the
petals' unfolding can bring wonder and delight if I do not
interfere or let my expectations override my acceptance—
and this brings serenity. 
JUNE 10
IMPATIENT? TRY LEVITATING
We reacted more strongly to frustrations than normal
people.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. ",I l l
Impatience with other people is one of my principal
failings. Following a slow car in a no-passing lane, or
waiting in a restaurant for the check, drives me to
distraction. Before I give God a chance to slow me down, I
explode, and that's what I call being quicker than God.
That repeated experience gave me an idea. I thought if I
could look down on these events from God's point of view,
I might better control my feelings and behavior. I tried it
and when I encountered the next slow driver, I levitated
and looked down on the other car and upon myself. I saw
an elderly couple driving along, happily chatting about
their grandchildren. They were followed by me—bug-eyed
and red of face—who had no time schedule to meet
anyway. I looked so silly that I dropped back into reality
and slowed down. Seeing things from God's angle of vision
can be very relaxing."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "11",
"title": "FAMILY OBLIGATIONS",
"quote": " . . a spiritual life which does not include . . . family
obligations may not be so perfect after all.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 129",
"reading": "I can be doing great in the program—applying it at
meetings, at work, and in service activities—and find that
things have gone to pieces at home. I expect my loved ones
to understand, but they cannot. I expect them to see and
value my progress, but they don't—unless I show them. Do
I neglect their needs and desires for my attention and
concern? When I'm around them, am I irritable or boring?
Are my 'amends' a mumbled 'Sorry,' or do they take the
form of patience and tolerance? Do I preach to them, trying
to reform or 'fix' them? Have I ever really cleaned house
with them! 'The spiritual life is not a theory. We have to
live it' (Alcoholics Anonymous
"citation": ", p. 83",).",
"reading": "}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "12",
"title": "FORMING TRUE PARTNERSHIPS",
"quote": "ut it is from our twisted relations with family, friends, and
society at large that many of us have suffered the most. We
have been especially stupid and stubborn about them. The
primary fact that we fail to recognize is our total inability
to form a true partnership with another human being.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 53",
"reading": "Can these words apply to me, am I still unable to form a
true partnership with another human being? What a terrible
handicap that would be for me to carry into my sober life!
In my sobriety I will meditate and pray to discover how I
may be a trusted friend and companion."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "13",
"title": "LIVING OUR AMENDS",
"quote": "Years of living with an alcoholic is almost sure to make
any wife or child neurotic. The entire family is, to some
extent, ill.'",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 122",
"reading": "It is important for me to realize that, as an alcoholic, I not
only hurt myself, but also those around me. Making
amends to my family, and to the families of alcoholics still
suffering, will always be important. Understanding the
havoc I created and trying to repair the destruction, will be
a lifelong endeavor. The example of my sobriety may give
others hope, and faith to help themselves."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "14",
WHEN THE GOING GETS ROUGH It is a design
for living that works in rough going.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 15",
"reading": "When I came to A.A., I realized that A.A. worked
wonderfully to help keep me sober. But could it work on
real life problems, not concerned with drinking? I had my
doubts. After being sober for more than two years I got my
answer. I lost my job, developed physical problems, my
diabetic father lost a leg, and someone I loved left me for
another —and all of this happened during a two-week period.
Reality crashed in, yet A.A. was there to support,
comfort, and strengthen me. The principles I had learned
during my early days of sobriety became a mainstay of my
life for not only did I come through, but I never stopped
being able to help newcomers. A.A. taught me not to be
overwhelmed, but rather to accept and understand my life
as it unfolded."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "15",
MAKING A.A. YOUR HIGHER POWER
'. . . You can . . . make A.A. itself your 'higher power.'
Here's a very large group of people who have solved their
alcohol problem. . . . many members . . . have crossed the
threshold just this way. . . . their faith broadened and
deepened. . . . transformed, they came to believe in a
Higher Power. . . . '",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 27-28",
"reading": "No one was greater than I, at least in my eyes, when I was
drinking. Nevertheless, I couldn't smile at myself in the
mirror, so I came to A.A. where, with others, I heard talk of
a Higher Power. I couldn't accept the concept of a Higher
Power because I believed God was cruel and unloving. In
desperation I chose a table, a tree, then my A.A. group, as
my Higher Power. Time passed, my life improved, and I
began to wonder about this Higher Power. Gradually, with
patience, humility and a lot of questions, I came to believe
in God. Now my relationship with my Higher Power gives
me the strength to live a happy, sober life."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "16",
OPEN-MINDEDNESS
We have found that God does not make too hard terms with
those who seek Him. To us, the realm of spirit is broad,
roomy, all inclusive, never exclusive or forbidding to those
who earnestly seek. It is open, we believe, to all men.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 7",
"reading": "Open-mindedness to concepts of a Higher Power can open
doors to the spirit. Often I find the human spirit in various
dogmas and faiths. I can be spiritual in the sharing of
myself. The sharing of self joins me to the human race and
brings me closer to God, as I understand Him."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "17",
"title": "'DEEP DOWN WITHIN US'",
"quote": "We found the Great Reality deep down within us. In the last
analysis it is only there that He may be found. . . . search
diligently within yourself. . . . With this attitude you cannot
fail. The consciousness of your belief is sure to come to
you.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 55",
"reading": "It was out of the depths of loneliness, depression and
despair that I sought the help of A.A. As I recovered and
began to face the emptiness and ruin of my life, I began to
open myself to the possibility of the healing that recovery
offers through the A.A. program. By coining to meetings,
staying sober, and taking the Steps, I had the opportunity to
listen with increasing attentiveness to the depths of my
soul. Daily I waited, in hope and gratitude, for that sure
belief and steadfast love I had longed for in my life. In this
process, I met my God, as I understand Him."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "18",
"title": "A FELLOWSHIP OF FREEDOM",
"quote": " . . if only men were granted absolute liberty, and were
compelled to obey no one, they would then voluntarily
associate themselves in the common interest",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 50",
"reading": "When I no longer live under the dictates of another or of
alcohol, I live in a new freedom. When I release the past
and all the excess baggage I have carried for so very long, I
come to know freedom. I have been introduced into a life
and a fellowship of freedom. The Steps are a
'recommended' way of finding a new life, there are no
commands or dictates in A.A. I am free to serve from
desire rather than decree. There is the understanding that I
will benefit from the growth of other members and I take
what I learn and bring it back to the group. The 'common
welfare' finds room to grow in the society of personal
freedom."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "19",
'A.A. REGENERATION'
Such is the paradox of A.A. regeneration: strength arising
out of complete defeat and weakness, the loss of one's old
life as a condition for finding a new one.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 46",
"reading": "A thousand beatings by John Barleycorn did not encourage
me to admit defeat. I believed it was my moral obligation
to conquer my 'enemy-friend.' At my first A.A. meeting I
was blessed with a feeling that it was all right to admit
defeat to a disease which had nothing to do with my 'moral
fiber.' I knew instinctively that I was in the presence of a
great love when I entered the doors of A.A. With no effort
on my part, I became aware that to love myself was good
and right, as God had intended. My feelings set me free,
where my thoughts had held me in bondage. I am grateful. 
JUNE 20
RELEASE FROM FEAR
The problem of resolving fear has two aspects. We shall
have to try for all the freedom from fear that is possible for
us to attain. Then we shall need to find both the courage
and grace to deal constructively with whatever fears
remain.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 61",
"reading": "Most of my decisions were based on fear. Alcohol made
life easier to face, but the time came when alcohol was no
longer an alternative to fear. One of the greatest gifts in
A.A. for me has been the courage to take action, which I
can do with God's help. After five years of sobriety I had to
deal with a heavy dose of fear. God put the people in my
life to help me do that and, through my working the Twelve
Steps, I am becoming the whole person I wish to be and,
for that, I am deeply grateful."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "21",
The achievement of freedom from fear is a lifetime
undertaking, one that can never be wholly completed. When
under heavy attack, acute illness, or in other conditions of
serious insecurity, we shall all act to this emotion—well or
badly, as the case may be. Only the self-deceived will claim
perfect freedom from fear.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 263",
"reading": "Fear has caused suffering when I could have had more
faith. There are times when fear suddenly tears me apart,
just when I'm experiencing feelings of joy, happiness and a
lightness of heart. Faith— and a feeling of self-worth
toward a Higher Power—helps me endure tragedy and
ecstasy. When I choose to give all of my fears over to my
Higher Power, I will be free."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "22",
TODAY, I'M FREE
This brought me to the good healthy realization that there
were plenty of situations left in the world over which I had
no personal power—that if I was so ready to admit that to
be the case with alcohol, so I must make the same admission
with respect to much else. I would have to be still and know
that He, not I, was God.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 114",
"reading": "I am learning to practice acceptance in all circumstances of
my life, so that I may enjoy peace of mind. At one time life
was a constant battle because I felt I had to go through each
day fighting myself, and everyone else. Eventually, this
became a losing battle. I ended up getting drunk and crying
over my misery. When I began to let go and let God take
over my life I began to have peace of mind. Today, I am
free. I do not have to fight anybody or anything anymore."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "23",
"title": "TRUSTING OTHERS",
"quote": "ut does trust require that we be blind to other people's
motives or, indeed, to our own? Not at all; this would be
folly. Most certainly, we should assess the capacity for
harm as well as the capability for good in every person that
we would trust. Such a private inventory can reveal the
degree of confidence we should extend in any given
situation.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 144",
"reading": "I am not a victim of others, but rather a victim of my
expectations, choices and dishonesty. When I expect others
to be what I want them to be and not who they are, when
they fail to meet my expectations, I am hurt. When my
choices are based on self-centeredness, I find I am lonely
and distrustful. I gain confidence in myself, however, when
I practice honesty in all my affairs. When I search my
motives and am honest and trusting, I am aware of the
capacity for harm in situations and can avoid those that are
harmful."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "24",
"title": "A SPIRITUAL KINDERGARTEN",
"quote": "e are only operating a spiritual kindergarten in which
people are enabled to get over drinking and find the grace
to go on living to better effect",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 95",
"reading": "When I came to A.A., I was run down by the bottle and
wanted to lose the obsession to drink, but I didn't really
know how to do that. I decided to stick around long enough
to find out from the ones who went before me. All of a
sudden I was thinking about God! I was told to get a Higher
Power and I had no idea what one looked like. I found out
there are many Higher Powers. I was told to find God, as I
understand Him, that there was no doctrine of the Godhead
in A.A. I found what worked for me and then asked that
Power to restore me to sanity. The obsession to drink was
removed and—one day at a time—my life went on, and I
learned how to five sober."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "25",
A TWO-WAY STREET
If we ask, God will certainly forgive our derelictions. But in
no case does He render us white as snow and keep us that
way without our cooperation.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 65",
"reading": "When I prayed, I used to omit a lot of things for which I
needed to be forgiven. I thought that if I didn't mention
these things to God, He would never know about them. I
did not know that if I had just forgiven myself for some of
my past deeds, God would forgive me also. I was always
taught to prepare for the journey through life, never
realizing until I came to A.A.—when I honestly became
willing to be taught forgiveness and forgiving—that life
itself is the journey. The journey of life is a very happy
one, as long as I am willing to accept change and
responsibility."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "26",
"title": "A GIFT THAT GROWS WITH TIME",
"quote": "or most normal folks, drinking means conviviality,
companionship and colorful imagination. It means release
from care, boredom and worry. It is joyous intimacy with
friends and a feeling that life is good",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 151",
"reading": "The longer I chased these elusive feelings with alcohol, the
more out of reach they were. However, by applying this
passage to my sobriety, I found that it described the
magnificent new life made available to me by the A.A.
program. 'It' truly does 'get better' one day at a time. The
warmth, the love and the joy so simply expressed in these
words grow in breadth and depth each time I read it.
Sobriety is a gift that grows with time."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "27",
CONFORMING TO THE A.A. WAY
We obey A.A. 's Steps and Traditions because we really
want them for ourselves. It is no longer a question of good
or evil; we conform because we genuinely want to conform
Such is our process of growth in unity and function. Such is
the evidence of God's grace and love among us.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 106",
"reading": "It is fun to watch myself grow in A.A. I fought conformity
to A.A. principles from the moment I entered, but I learned
from the pain of my belligerence that, in choosing to live
the A. A. way of life, I opened myself to God's grace and
love. Then I began to know the full meaning of being a
member of Alcoholics Anonymous."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "28",
"title": "THE DETERMINATION OF OUR FOUNDERS",
"quote": " year and six }
,
{ months later these three had succeeded with
seven more.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 159",
"reading": "If it had not been for the fierce determination of our
founders, A.A. would have quickly faded like so many
other so-called good causes. I look at the hundreds of
meetings weekly in the city where I five and I know A.A. is
available twenty-four hours a day. If I had had to hang on
with nothing but hope and a desire not to drink,
experiencing rejection wherever I went, I would have
sought the easier, softer way and returned to my previous
way of life."}
,
{ "month": "JUNE",
"day": "29",
"title": "A RIPPLING EFFECT",
"quote": "aving learned to live so happily, we'd show everyone else
how. . . . Yes, we of A.A. did dream those dreams. How
natural that was, since most alcoholics are bankrupt
idealists. . . . So why shouldn't we share our way of life
with everyone?",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 156",
"reading": "The great discovery of sobriety led me to feel the need to
spread the 'good news' to the world around me. The
grandiose thoughts of my drinking days returned. Later, I
learned that concentrating on my own recovery was a fulltime
process. As I became a sober citizen in this world, I
observed a rippling effect which, without any conscious
effort on my part, reached any 'related facility or outside
enterprise,' without diverting me from my primary purpose
of staying sober and helping other alcoholics to achieve
sobriety. 
JUNE 30
SACRIFICE = UNITY = SURVIVAL
The unity, the effectiveness, and even the survival of A.A.
will always depend upon our continued willingness to give
up some of our personal ambitions and desires for the
common safety and welfare. Just as sacrifice means
survival for the individual alcoholic, so does sacrifice mean
unity and survival for the group and for A.A. 's entire
Fellowship.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 220",
"reading": "I have learned that I must sacrifice some of my personality
traits for the good of A.A. and, as a result, I have been
rewarded with many gifts. False pride can be inflated
through prestige but, by living Tradition Six, I receive the
gift of humility instead. Cooperation without affiliation is
often deceiving. If I remain unrelated to outside interests, I
am free to keep A.A. autonomous. Then the Fellowship will
be here, healthy and strong for generations to come."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "1",
"title": "THE BEST FOR TODAY",
"quote": "The principles we have set down are guides to progress",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 60",
"reading": "Just as a sculptor will use different tools to achieve desired
effects in creating a work of art, in Alcoholics Anonymous
the Twelve Steps are used to bring about results in my own
life. I do not overwhelm myself with life's problems, and
how much more work needs to be done. I let myself be
comforted in knowing that my life is now in the hands of
my Higher Power, a master craftsman who is shaping each
part of my life into a unique work of art. By working my
program I can be satisfied, knowing that 'in doing the best
that we can for today, we are doing all that God asks of us.' }
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "2",
"title": "THE HEART OF TRUE SOBRIETY",
"quote": "We find that no one need have difficulty with the spirituality
of the program. Willingness, honesty and open-mindedness
are the essentials of recovery. But these are indispensable.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 570",
"reading": "Am I honest enough to accept myself as I am and let this
be the 'me' that I let others see? Do I have the willingness
to go to any length, to do whatever is necessary to stay
sober? Do I have the open-mindedness to hear what I have
to hear, to think what I have to think, and to feel what I
have to feel?
If my answer to these questions is 'Yes,' I know enough
about the spirituality of the program to stay sober. As I
continue to work the Twelve Steps, I move on to the heart
of true sobriety: serenity with myself, with others, and with
God as I understand Him."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "3",
EXPERIENCE: THE BEST TEACHER
Being still inexperienced and having just made conscious
contact with God, it is not probable that we are going to be
inspired at all times.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 87",
"reading": "Some say that experience is the best teacher, but I believe
that experience is the only teacher. I have been able to learn
of God's love for me only by the experience of my
dependence on that love. At first I could not be sure of His
direction in my life, but now I see that if I am to be bold
enough to ask for His guidance, I must act as if He has
provided it. I frequently ask God to help me remember that
He has a path for me."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "4",
"title": "A NATURAL FAITH",
"quote": ". . . deep down in every man, woman and child, is the
fundamental idea of God. It may be obscured by calamity,
by pomp, by worship of other things, but in some form or
other it is there. For faith in a Power greater than
ourselves, and miraculous demonstrations of that power in
human lives, are facts as old as man himself.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 55",
"reading": "I have seen the workings of the unseen God in A.A. rooms
around the country. Miracles of recovery are everywhere in
evidence. I now believe that God is in these rooms and in
my heart. Today faith is as natural to me, a former
agnostic, as breathing, eating and sleeping. The Twelve
Steps have helped to change my life in many ways, but
none is more effective than the acquisition of a Higher
Power."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "5",
"title": "A NEW DIRECTION",
"quote": "Our human resources, as marshaled by the will, were not
sufficient; they failed utterly. . . . Every day is a day when
we must carry the vision of God's will into all our activities.
ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 45, 85
I hear talk of the 'weak-willed' alcoholic, but I am one of
the strongest-willed people on earth! I now know that my
incredible strength of will is not enough to save my life.
My problem is not one of 'weakness,' but rather of
direction. When I, without falsely diminishing myself,
accept my honest limitations and turn to God's guidance,
my worst faults become my greatest assets. My strong will,
rightly directed, keeps me working until the promises of the
program become my daily reality."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "6",
IDENTIFYING FEAR . . .
The chief activator of our defects has been self-centered
fear. . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 76",
"reading": "When I feel uncomfortable, irritated, or depressed, I look
for fear. This 'evil and corroding thread' is the root of my
distress: Fear of failure; fear of others' opinions; fear of
harm, and many other fears. I have found a Higher Power
who does not want me to live in fear and, as a result, the
experience of A.A. in my life is freedom and joy. I am no
longer willing to live with the multitude of character defects
that characterized my life while I was drinking. Step
Seven is my vehicle to freedom from these defects. I pray
for help in identifying the fear underneath the defect, and
then I ask God to relieve me of that fear. This method
works for me without fail and is one of the great miracles
of my life in Alcoholics Anonymous."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "7",
. . . AND LETTING GO OF IT
. . . primarily fear that we would lose something we already
possessed or would fail to get something we demanded.
Living upon a basis of unsatisfied demands, we were in a
state of continual disturbance and frustration. Therefore,
no peace was to be had unless we could find a means of
reducing these demands The difference between a demand
and a simple request is plain to anyone.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 76",
"reading": "Peace is possible for me only when I let go of expectations.
When I'm trapped in thoughts about what I want and what
should be coming to me, I'm in a state of fear or anxious
anticipation and this is not conducive to emotional sobriety.
I must surrender —over and over—to the reality of my
dependence on God, for then I find peace, gratitude and
spiritual security."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "8",
AN EVER-GROWING FREEDOM
The Seventh Step is where we make the change in our
attitude which permits us, with humility as our guide, to
move out from ourselves toward others and toward God.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 76",
"reading": "When I finally asked God to remove those things blocking
me from Him and the sunlight of the Spirit, I embarked on
a journey more glorious than I ever imagined. I
experienced a freedom from those characteristics that had
me wrapped up in myself. Because of this humbling Step, I
feel clean.
I am especially aware of this Step because I'm now able
to be useful to God and to my fellows. I know that He has
granted me strength to do His bidding and has prepared me
for anyone, and anything, that comes my way today. I am
truly in His hands, and I give thanks for the joy that I can
be useful today."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "9",
I AM AN INSTRUMENT Humbly asked Him
to remove our shortcomings.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 70",
"reading": "The subject of humility is a difficult one. Humility is not
thinking less of myself than I ought to; it is acknowledging
that I do certain things well, it is accepting a compliment
graciously.
God can only do for me what He can do through me.
Humility is the result of knowing that God is the doer, not
me. In the light of this awareness, how can I take pride in
my accomplishments? I am an instrument and any work I
seem to be doing is being done by God through me. I ask
God on a daily basis to remove my shortcomings, in order
that I may more freely go about my A.A. business of 'love
and service.' 
JULY 10
TOWARD PEACE AND SERENITY
. . . when we have taken a square look at some of these
defects, have discussed them with another, and have
become willing to have them removed, our thinking about
humility commences to have a wider meaning.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 74",
"reading": "When situations arise which destroy my serenity, pain often
motivates me to ask God for clarity in seeing my part in the
situation. Admitting my powerlessness, I humbly pray for
acceptance. I try to see how my character defects
contributed to the situation. Could I have been more
patient? Was I intolerant? Did I insist on having my own
way? Was I afraid? As my defects are revealed, I put selfreliance
aside and humbly ask God to remove my
shortcomings. The situation may not change, but as I
practice exercising humility, I enjoy the peace and serenity
which are the natural benefits of placing my reliance in a
power greater than myself."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "11",
"title": "A TURNING POINT",
"quote": " great turning point in our lives came when we sought for
humility as something we really wanted, rather than as
something we must have.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 75",
"reading": "Either the A.A. way of life becomes one of joy or I return
to the darkness and despair of alcoholism. Joy comes to me
when my attitude concerning God and humility turns to one
of desire rather than of burden. The darkness in my life
changes to radiant light when I arrive at the realization that
being truthful and honest in dealing with my inventory
results in my life being filled with serenity, freedom, and
joy. Trust in my Higher Power deepens, and the flush of
gratitude spreads through my being. I am convinced that
being humble is being truthful and honest in dealing with
myself and God. It is then that humility is something I
'really want,' rather than being 'something I must have.' }
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "12",
"title": "GIVING UP CENTER STAGE",
"quote": "or without some degree of humility, no alcoholic can stay
sober at all . . . Without it, they cannot live to much useful
purpose, or, in adversity, be able to summon the faith that
can meet any emergency.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 70",
"reading": "Why do I balk at the word 'humility?' I am not humbling
myself toward other people, but toward God, as I
understand Him. Humility means 'to show submissive
respect,' and by being humble I realize I am not the center
of the universe. When I was drinking, I was consumed by
pride and self-centeredness. I felt the entire world revolved
around me, that I was master of my destiny. Humility
enables me to depend more on God to help me overcome
obstacles, to help me with my own imperfections, so that I
may grow spiritually. I must solve more difficult problems
to increase my proficiency and, as I encounter life's
stumbling blocks, I must learn to overcome them through
God's help. Daily communion with God demonstrates my
humility and provides me with the realization that an entity
more powerful than I is willing to help me if I cease trying
to play God myself."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "13",
"title": "HUMILITY IS A GIFT",
"quote": "s long as we placed self-reliance first, a genuine reliance
upon a Higher Power was out of the question. That basic
ingredient of all humility, a desire to seek and do God's
will, was missing.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 72",
"reading": "When I first came to A.A., I wanted to find some of the
elusive quality called humility. I didn't realize I was looking
for humility because I thought it would help me get what I
wanted, and that I would do anything for others if I thought
God would somehow reward me for it. I try to remember
now that the people I meet in the course of my day are as
close to God as I am ever going to get while on this earth. I
need to pray for knowledge of God's will today, and see
how my experience with hope and pain can help other
people; if I can do that, I don't need to search for humility,
it has found me."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "14",
"title": "A NOURISHING INGREDIENT",
"quote": "here humility had formerly stood for a forced feeding on
humble pie, it now begins to mean the nourishing
ingredient which can give us serenity.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 74",
"reading": "How often do I focus on my problems and frustrations?
When I am having a 'good day' these same problems
shrink in importance and my preoccupation with them
dwindles. Wouldn't it be better if I could find a key to
unlock the 'magic' of my 'good days' for use on the woes
of my 'bad days?'
I already have the solution! Instead of trying to run away
from my pain and wish my problems away, I can pray for
humility! Humility will heal the pain. Humility will take me
out of myself. Humility, that strength granted to me by that
'power greater than myself,' is mine for the asking! Humility
will bring balance back into my life. Humility will allow
me to accept my humanness joyously."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "15",
"title": "PRIDE",
"quote": "or thousands of years we have been demanding more than
our share of security, prestige, and romance. When we
seemed to be succeeding, we drank to dream still greater
dreams. When we were frustrated, even in part, we drank
for oblivion. Never was there enough of what we thought
we wanted.
In all these strivings, so many of them well-intentioned,
our crippling handicap had been our lack of humility. We
had lacked the perspective to see that character-building
and spiritual values had to come first, and that material
satisfactions were not the purpose of living.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 71",
"reading": "Time and again I approached the Seventh Step, only to fall
back and regroup. Something was missing and the impact
of the Step escaped me. What had I overlooked? A single
word: read but ignored, the foundation of all the Steps,
indeed the entire Alcoholics Anonymous program—that
word is 'humbly.'
I understood my shortcomings: I constantly put tasks
off; I angered easily; I felt too much self-pity; and I
thought, why me? Then I remembered, 'Pride goeth before
the fall,' and I eliminated pride from my life."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "16",
"title": "'A MEASURE OF HUMILITY'",
"quote": "In every case, pain had been the price of admission into a
new life. But this admission price had purchased more than
we expected It brought a measure of humility, which we
soon discovered to be a healer of pain.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 75",
"reading": "It was painful to give up trying to control my life, even
though success eluded me, and when life got too rough, I
drank to escape. Accepting life on life's terms will be
mastered through the humility I experience when I turn my
will and my life over to the care of God, as I understand
Him. With my life in God's care, fear, uncertainty, and
anger are no longer my response to those portions of life
that I would rather not have happen to me. The pain of
living through these times will be healed by the knowledge
that I have received the spiritual strength to survive."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "17",
SURRENDER AND SELF-EXAMINATION
My stability came out of trying to give, not out of
demanding that I receive.
Thus I think it can work out with emotional sobriety. If
we examine every disturbance we have, great or small, we
will find at the root of it some unhealthy dependency and its
consequent unhealthy demand. Let us, with God's help,
continually surrender these hobbling demands. Then we
can be set free to live and love; we may then be able to
Twelfth Step ourselves and others into emotional sobriety.",
"citation": "THE LANGUAGE OF THE HEART, p. 238",
"reading": "Years of dependency on alcohol as a chemical moodchanger
deprived me of the capability to interact
emotionally with my fellows. I thought I had to be selfsufficient,
self-reliant, and self-motivated in a world of
unreliable people. Finally I lost my self-respect and was left
with dependency, lacking any ability to trust myself or to
believe in anything. Surrender and self-examination while
sharing with newcomers helped me to ask humbly for help."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "18",
"title": "GRATEFUL FOR WHAT I HAVE",
"quote": "uring this process of learning more about humility, the
most profound result of all was the change in our attitude
toward God.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 75",
"reading": "Today my prayers consist mostly of saying thank you to
my Higher Power for my sobriety and for the wonder of
God's abundance, but I need to ask also for help and the
power to carry out His will for me. I no longer need God
each minute to rescue me from the situations I get myself
into by not doing His will. Now my gratitude seems to be
directly linked to humility. As long as I have the humility
to be grateful for what I have, God continues to provide for
me."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "19",
"title": "FALSE PRIDE",
"quote": "any of us who had thought ourselves religious awoke to
the limitations of this attitude. Refusing to place God first,
we had deprived ourselves of His help.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 75",
"reading": "Many false notions operate in false pride. The need for
direction to live a decent life is satisfied by the hope
experienced in the A.A. Fellowship. Those who have
walked the way for years—a day at a time—say that a Godcentered
life has limitless possibilities for personal growth.
This being so, much hope is transmitted by the elder A.A.s.
I thank my Higher Power for letting me know that He
works through other people, and I thank Him for our
trusted servants in the Fellowship who aid new members to
reject their false ideals and to adopt those which lead to a
life of compassion and trust. The elders in A.A. challenge
the newcomers to 'Come To'—so that they can 'Come to
Believe.' I ask my Higher Power to help my unbelief. 
JULY 20
SHORTCOMINGS REMOVED
But now the words 'Of myself I am nothing, the Father
doeth the works' began to carry bright promise and
meaning.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 75",
"reading": "When I put the Seventh Step into action I must remember
that there are no blanks to fill in. It doesn't say, 'Humbly
asked Him to (fill in the blank) remove our shortcomings.'
For years, I filled in the imaginary blank with 'Help me!'
'Give me the courage to,' and 'Give me the strength,' etc.
The Step says simply that God will remove my
shortcomings. The only footwork I must do is 'humbly
ask,' which for me means asking with the knowledge that
of myself I am nothing, the Father within 'doeth the
works.' }
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "21",
"title": "A PRICELESS GIFT",
"quote": "y this time in all probability we have gained some
measure of release from our more devastating handicaps.
We enjoy moments in which there is something like real
peace of mind. To those of us who have hitherto known only
excitement, depression, or anxiety—in other words, to all of
us—this newfound peace is a priceless gift.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 74",
"reading": "I am learning to let go and let God, to have a mind that is
open and a heart that is willing to receive God's grace in all
my affairs; in this way I can experience the peace and
freedom that come as a result of surrender. It has been
proven that an act of surrender, originating in desperation
and defeat, can grow into an ongoing act of faith, and that
faith means freedom and victory."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "22",
"title": "'THE GOOD AND THE BAD'",
"quote": "'My Creator, I am now willing that you should have all of
me, good and bad.'",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "The joy of life is in the giving. Being freed of my
shortcomings, that I may more freely be of service, allows
humility to grow in me. My shortcomings can be humbly
placed in God's loving care and be removed. The essence
of Step Seven is humility, and what better way to seek
humility than by giving all of myself—good and bad—to
God, so that He may remove the bad and return to me the
good."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "23",
"title": "I ASK GOD TO DECIDE",
"quote": "I pray that you now remove from me every single defect of
character which stands in the way of my usefulness to you
and my fellows '",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "Having admitted my powerlessness and made a decision to
turn my will and my life over to the care of God, as I
understand Him, I don't decide which defects get removed,
or the order in which defects get removed, or the time
frame in which they get removed. I ask God to decide
which defects stand in the way of my usefulness to Him
and to others, and then I humbly ask Him to remove them."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "24",
"title": "HELPING OTHERS",
"quote": "ur very lives, as ex-problem drinkers, depend upon our
constant thought of others and how we may help meet their
needs.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 20",
"reading": "Self-centeredness was my problem. All my life people had
been doing things for me and I not only expected it, but I
was ungrateful and resentful they didn't do more. Why
should I help others, when they were supposed to help me?
If others had troubles, didn't they deserve them? I was
filled with self-pity, anger and resentment. Then I learned
that by helping others, with no thought of return, I could
overcome this obsession with selfishness, and if I
understood humility, I would know peace and serenity. No
longer do I need to drink."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "25",
"title": "THOSE WHO STILL SUFFER",
"quote": "or us, if we neglect those who are still sick, there is
unremitting danger to our own lives and sanity.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 151",
"reading": "I know the torment of drinking compulsively to quiet my
nerves and my fears. I also know the pain of whiteknuckled
sobriety. Today, I do not forget the unknown
person who suffers quietly, withdrawn and hiding in the
desperate relief of drinking. I ask my Higher Power to give
me His guidance and the courage to be willing to be His
instrument to carry within me compassion and unselfish
actions. Let the group continue to give me the strength to
do with others what I cannot do alone."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "26",
THE 'WORTH' OF SOBRIETY
Every A.A. group ought to be fully self-supporting,
declining outside contributions.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 160",
"reading": "When I go shopping I look at the prices and if I need what I
see, I buy it and pay. Now that I am supposed to be in
rehabilitation, I have to straighten out my life. When I go
to a meeting, I take a coffee with sugar and milk,
sometimes more than one. But at the collection time, I am
either too busy to take money out of my purse, or I do not
have enough, but I am there because I need this meeting. I
heard someone suggest dropping the price of a beer into the
basket, and I thought, that's too much! I almost never give
one dollar. Like many others, I rely on the more generous
members to finance the Fellowship. I forget that it takes
money to rent the meeting room, buy my milk, sugar and
cups. I will pay, without hesitation, ninety cents for a cup
of coffee at a restaurant after the meeting; I always have
money for that. So, how much is my sobriety and my inner
peace worth? }
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "27",
"title": "GIVING FREELY",
"quote": "e will make every personal sacrifice necessary to
insure the unity of Alcoholics Anonymous. We will
do this because we have learned to love God and one
another.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 234",
"reading": "To be self-supporting through my own contributions was
never a strong characteristic during my days as a practicing
alcoholic. The giving of time or money always demanded a
price tag.
As a newcomer I was told 'we have to give it away in
order to keep it.' As I began to adopt the principles of
Alcoholics Anonymous in my life, I soon found it was a
privilege to give to the Fellowship as an expression of the
gratitude I felt in my heart. My love of God and of others
became the motivating factor in my life, with no thought of
return. I realize now that giving freely is God's way of
expressing Himself through me."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "28",
"title": "THOSE WHO STILL SUFFER",
"quote": "et us resist the proud assumption that since God has
enabled us to do well in one area we are destined to be a
channel of saving grace for everybody.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 232",
"reading": "A.A. groups exist to help alcoholics achieve sobriety.
Large or small, firmly established or brand-new, speaker,
discussion or study, each group has but one reason for
being: to carry the message to the still-suffering alcoholic.
The group exists so that the alcoholic can find a new way
of life, a life abundant in happiness, joy, and freedom. To
recover, most alcoholics need the support of a group of
other alcoholics who share their experience, strength and
hope. Thus my sobriety, and our program's survival,
depend on my determination to put first things first."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "29",
"title": "ANONYMOUS GIFTS OF KINDNESS",
"quote": "s active alcoholics we were always looking for a handout
in one way or another.
'THE TWELVE TRADITIONS ILLUSTRATED,' p. 14
The challenge of the Seventh Tradition is a personal
challenge, reminding me to share and give of myself.
Before sobriety the only thing I ever supported was my
habit of drinking. Now my efforts are a smile, a kind word,
and kindness.
I saw that I had to start carrying my own weight and to
allow my new friends to walk with me because, through the
practice of the Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions, I've
never had it so good. 
JULY 30
GIVING BACK
. . . he has struck something better than gold. . . . He may
not see at once that he has barely scratched a limitless lode
which will pay dividends only if he mines it for the rest of
his life and insists on giving away the entire product.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 129",
"reading": "My part of the Seventh Tradition means so much more than
just giving money to pay for the coffee. It means being
accepted for myself by belonging to a group. For the first
time I can be responsible, because I have a choice. I can
learn the principles of working out problems in my daily
life by getting involved in the 'business' of A.A. By being
self-supporting, I can give back to A.A. what A.A. gave to
me! Giving back to A.A. not only ensures my own
sobriety, but allows me to buy insurance that A.A. will be
here for my grandchildren."}
,
{ "month": "JULY",
"day": "31",
"title": "A PRAYER FOR ALL SEASONS",
"quote": "od grant us the serenity to accept the things we cannot
change, Courage to change the things we can. And wisdom
to know the difference.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 125",
"reading": "The power of this prayer is overwhelming in that its simple
beauty parallels the A.A. Fellowship. There are times when
I get stuck while reciting it, but if I examine the section
which is troubling me, I find the answer to my problem.
The first time this happened I was scared, but now I use it
as a valuable tool. By accepting life as it is, I gain serenity.
By taking action, I gain courage and I thank God for the
ability to distinguish between those situations I can work
on, and those I must turn over. All that I have now is a gift
from God: my life, my usefulness, my contentment, and
this program. The serenity enables me to continue walking
forward. Alcoholics Anonymous is the easier, softer way. 
}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "1",
"title": "LIVING IT",
"quote": "The spiritual life is not a theory. We have to live it.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 83",
"reading": "When new in the program, I couldn't comprehend living
the spiritual aspect of the program, but now that I'm sober,
I can't comprehend living without it. Spirituality was what
I had been seeking. God, as I understand Him, has given
me answers to the whys that kept me drinking for twenty
years. By living a spiritual life, by asking God for help, I
have learned to love, care for and feel compassion for all
my fellow men, and to feel joy in a world where, before, I
felt only fear."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "2",
WE BECOME WILLING . . .
At the moment we are trying to put our lives in order. But
this is not an end in itself.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 77",
"reading": "How easily I can become misdirected in approaching the
Eighth Step! I wish to be free, somehow transformed by my
Sixth and Seventh Step work. Now, more than ever, I am
vulnerable to my own self-interest and hidden agenda. I am
careful to remember that self-satisfaction, which sometimes
comes through the spoken forgiveness of those I have
harmed, is not my true objective. I become willing to make
amends, knowing that through this process I am mended
and made fit to move forward, to know and desire God's
will for me."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "3",
. . . TO BE OF SERVICE
Our real purpose is to fit ourselves to be of maximum
service to God and the people about us.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 77",
"reading": "It is clear that God's plan for me is expressed through love.
God loved me enough to take me from alleys and jails so
that I could be made a useful participant in His world. My
response is to love all of His children through service and
by example. I ask God to help me imitate His love for me
through my love for others."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "4",
"title": "SEEDS OF FAITH",
"quote": "Faith, to be sure, is necessary, but faith alone can avail
nothing. We can have faith, yet keep God out of our lives.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 34",
"reading": "As a child I constantly questioned the existence of God. To
a 'scientific thinker' like me, no answer could withstand a
thorough dissection, until a very patient woman finally said
to me, 'You must have faith.' With that simple statement,
the seeds of my recovery were sown!
Today, as I practice my recovery—cutting back the
weeds of alcoholism—slowly I am letting those early seeds
of faith grow and bloom. Each day of recovery, of ardent
gardening, brings the Higher Power of my understanding
more fully into my life. My God has always been with me
through faith, but it is my responsibility to have the
willingness to accept His presence.
I ask God to grant me the willingness to do His will."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "5",
"title": "LISTENING DEEPLY",
"quote": "How persistently we claim the right to decide all by
ourselves just what we shall think and just how we shall act",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 37",
"reading": "If I accept and act upon the advice of those who have made
the program work for themselves, I have a chance to
outgrow the limits of the past. Some problems will shrink
to nothingness, while others may require patient, wellthought-out
action. Listening deeply when others share can
develop intuition in handling problems which arise
unexpectedly. It is usually best for me to avoid impetuous
action. Attending a meeting or calling a fellow A.A.
member will usually reduce tension enough to bring relief
to a desperate sufferer like me. Sharing problems at
meetings with other alcoholics to whom I relate, or
privately with my sponsor, can change aspects of the
positions in which I find myself. Character defects are
identified and I begin to see how they work against me.
When I put my faith in the spiritual power of the program,
when I trust others to teach me what I need to do to have a
better life, I find that I can trust myself to do what is
necessary."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "6",
"title": "DRIVEN",
"quote": "Driven by a hundred forms of fear, self-delusion, selfseeking,
and self-pity, we step on the toes of our fellows and
they retaliate.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 62",
"reading": "My selfishness was the driving force behind my drinking. I
drank to celebrate success and I drank to drown my
sorrows. Humility is the answer. I learn to turn my will and
my life over to the care of God. My sponsor tells me that
service keeps me sober. Today I ask myself: Have I sought
knowledge of God's will for me? Have I done service for
my A.A. group? }
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "7",
"title": "'DESIGN FOR LIVING'",
"quote": "We in our turn, sought the same escape with all the
desperation of drowning men. What seemed at first a flimsy
reed, has proved to be the loving and powerful hand of
God. A new life has been given us or, if you prefer, 'a
design for living' that really works.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 28",
"reading": "I try each day to raise my heart and hands in thanks to God
for showing me a 'design for living' that really works
through our beautiful Fellowship. But what, exactly, is this
'design for living' that 'really works'? For me, it is the
practice of the Twelve Steps to the best of my ability, the
continued awareness of a God who loves me unconditionally,
and the hope that, in each new day, there is a purpose
for my being. I am truly, truly blessed in the Fellowship."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "8",
'MADE A LIST . . .' Made a list of all
persons we had harmed, . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 77",
"reading": "When I approached the Eighth Step, I wondered how I
could list all the things that I have done to other people
since there were so many people, and some of them weren't
alive anymore. Some of the hurts I inflicted weren't bad,
but they really bothered me. The main thing to see in this
Step was to become willing to do whatever I had to do to
make these amends to the best of my ability at that particular
time. Where there is a will, there's a way, so if I
want to feel better, I need to unload the guilt feelings I
have. A peaceful mind has no room for feelings of guilt.
With the help of my Higher Power, if I am honest with
myself, I can cleanse my mind of these feelings."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "9",
'. . . OF ALL PERSONS WE HAD HARMED'
. . . and became willing to make amends to them all.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 77",
"reading": "One of the key words in the Eighth Step is the word all. I
am not free to select a few names for the list and to
disregard others. It is a list of all persons I have harmed. I
can see immediately that this Step entails forgiveness
because if I'm not willing to forgive someone, there is little
chance I will place his name on the list. Before I placed the
first name on my list, I said a little prayer: 'I forgive
anyone and everyone who has ever harmed me at any time
and under any circumstances.'
It is well for me to contemplate a small, but very
significant, two-letter word every time the Lord's Prayer is
said. The word is as. I ask, 'Forgive us our trespasses, as
we forgive those who trespass against us.' In this case, as
means, 'in the same manner.' I am asking to be forgiven in
the same manner that I forgive others. As I say this portion
of the prayer, if I am harboring hatred or resentment, I am
inviting more resentment, when I should be calling on the
spirit of forgiveness. 
AUGUST 10
REDOUBLING OUR EFFORTS
To a degree, he has already done this when taking moral
inventory, but now the time has come when he ought to
redouble his efforts to see how many people he has hurt,
and in what ways.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 77",
"reading": "As I continue to grow in sobriety, I become more aware of
myself as a person of worth. In the process, I am better able
to see others as persons, and with this comes the realization
that these were people whom I had hurt in my drinking
days. I didn't just lie, I lied about Tom. I didn't just cheat, I
cheated Joe. What were seemingly impersonal acts, were
really personal affronts, because it was people —people of
worth—whom I had harmed. I need to do something about
the people I have hurt so that I may enjoy a peaceful
sobriety."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "11",
REMOVING "title": "'THE GROUND GLASS'",
"quote": "The moral inventory is a cool examination of the damages
that occurred to us during life and a sincere effort to look
at them in a true perspective. This has the effect of taking
the ground glass out of us, the emotional substance that
still cuts and inhibits.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 140",
"reading": "My Eighth Step list used to drag me into a whirlpool of
resentment. After four years of sobriety, I was blocked by
denial connected with an ongoing abusive relationship. The
argument between fear and pride eased as the words of the
Step moved from my head to my heart. For the first time in
years I opened my box of paints and poured out an honest
rage, an explosion of reds and blacks and yellows. As I
looked at the drawing, tears of joy and relief flowed down
my cheeks. In my disease, I had given up my art, a selfinflicted
punishment far greater than any imposed from
outside. In my recovery, I learned that the pain of my
defects is the very substance God uses to cleanse my
character and to set me free."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "12",
"title": "A LOOK BACKWARD",
"quote": "irst, we take a look backward and try to discover where
we have been at fault; next we make a vigorous attempt to
repair the damage we have done; . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 77",
"reading": "As a traveler on a fresh and exciting A.A. journey of
recovery, I experienced a newfound peace of mind and the
horizon appeared clear and bright, rather than obscure and
dim. Reviewing my life to discover where I had been at
fault seemed to be such an arduous and dangerous task. It
was painful to pause and look backward. I was afraid I
might stumble! Couldn't I put the past out of my mind and
just live in my new golden present? I realized that those in
the past whom I had harmed stood between me and my
desire to continue my movement toward serenity. I had to
ask for courage to face those persons from my life who still
lived in my conscience, to recognize and deal with the guilt
that their presence produced in me. I had to look at the
damage I had done, and become willing to make amends.
Only then could my journey of the spirit resume."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "13",
"title": "A CLEAN SWEEP",
"quote": " . . and third, having thus cleaned away the debris of the
past, we consider how, with our newfound knowledge of
ourselves, we may develop the best possible relations with
every human being we know.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 77",
"reading": "As I faced the Eighth Step, everything that was required for
successful completion of the previous seven Steps came
together: courage, honesty, sincerity, willingness and
thoroughness. I could not muster the strength required for
this task at the beginning, which is why this Step reads
'Became willing. . . .'
I needed to develop the courage to begin, the honesty to
see where I was wrong, a sincere desire to set things right,
thoroughness in making a list, and willingness to take the
risks required for true humility. With the help of my Higher
Power in developing these virtues, I completed this Step
and continued to move forward in my quest for spiritual
growth."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "14",
"title": "REPAIRING THE DAMAGE",
"quote": "e attempt to sweep away the debris which has accumulated
out of our effort to live on self-will and run the
show ourselves. If we haven't the will to do this, we ask
until it comes. Remember it was agreed at the beginning
we would go to any lengths for victory over alcohol.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 76",
"reading": "Making a list of people I had harmed was not a particularly
difficult thing to do. They had showed up in my Fourth
Step inventory: people towards whom I had resentments,
real or imagined, and whom I had hurt by acts of
retaliation. For my recovery to be thorough, I believed it
was not important for those who had legitimately harmed
me to make amends to me. What is important in my
relationship with God is that I stand before Him, knowing I
have done what I can to repair the damage I have done."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "15",
DIDN'T WE HURT ANYBODY?
Some of us, though, tripped over a very different snag. We
clung to the claim that when drinking we never hurt
anybody but ourselves.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 79",
"reading": "This Step seemed so simple. I identified several people
whom I had harmed, but they were no longer available.
Still, I was uneasy about the Step and avoided
conversations dealing with it. In time I learned to
investigate those Steps and areas of my life which made me
uncomfortable. My search revealed my parents, who had
been deeply hurt by my isolation from them; my employer,
who worried about my absences, my memory lapses, my
temper; and the friends I had shunned, without explanation.
As I faced the reality of the harm I had done, Step Eight
took on new meaning. I am no longer uncomfortable and I
feel clean and light."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "16",
"title": "'I HAD DROPPED OUT'",
"quote": "We might next ask ourselves what we mean when we say
that we have 'harmed' other people. What kinds of 'harm'
do people do one another, anyway? To define the word
'harm' in a practical way, we might call it the result of
instincts in collision, which cause physical, mental,
emotional, or spiritual damage to people.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 80",
"reading": "I had been to Eighth Step meetings, always thinking, 'I
really haven't harmed many people, mostly myself.' But the
time came when I wrote my list out and it was not as short
as I thought it would be. I either liked you, disliked you, or
needed something from you—it was that simple. People
hadn't done what I wanted them to do and intimate relationships
were out of hand because of my partners'
unreasonable demands. Were these 'sins of omission'?
Because of my drinking, I had 'dropped out'—never
sending cards, returning calls, being there for other people,
or taking part in their lives. What a grace it has been to look
at these relationships, to make my inventories in quiet,
alone with the God of my understanding, and to go forth
daily, with a willingness to be honest and forthright in my
relationships."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "17",
"title": "RIGHTING THE HARM",
"quote": "n many instances we shall find that though the harm done
others has not been great, the emotional harm we have
done ourselves has.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 79",
"reading": "Have you ever thought that the harm you did a business
associate, or perhaps a family member, was so slight that it
really didn't deserve an apology because they probably
wouldn't remember it anyway? If that person, and the
wrong done to him, keeps coming to mind, time and again,
causing an uneasy or perhaps guilty feeling, then I put that
person's name at the top of my 'amends list,' and become
willing to make a sincere apology, knowing I will feel calm
and relaxed about that person once this very important part
of my recovery is accomplished."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "18",
"title": "GETTING WELL",
"quote": "ery deep, sometimes quite forgotten, damaging emotional
conflicts persist below the level of consciousness.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 79-80",
"reading": "Only through positive action can I remove the remains of
guilt and shame brought on by alcohol. Throughout my
misadventures when I drank, my friends would say, 'Why
are you doing this? You're only hurting yourself.' Little did
I know how true were those words. Although I harmed
others, some of my behavior caused grave wounds to my
soul. Step Eight provides me with a way of forgiving myself.
I alleviate much of the hidden damage when I make
my list of those I have hurt. In making amends, I free
myself of burdens, thus contributing to my healing."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "19",
"title": "A FRAME OF REFERENCE",
"quote": "eferring to our list [inventory] again. Putting out of our
minds the wrongs others had done, we resolutely looked for
our own mistakes. Where had we been selfish, dishonest,
self-seeking and frightened?",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 67",
"reading": "There is a wonderful freedom in not needing constant
approval from colleagues at work or from the people I love.
I wish I had known about this Step before, because once I
developed a frame of reference, I felt able to do the next
right thing, knowing that the action fit the situation and that
it was the correct thing to do. 
AUGUST 20
TOWARD EMOTIONAL FREEDOM
Since defective relations with other human beings have
nearly always been the immediate cause of our woes,
including our alcoholism, no field of investigation could
yield more satisfying and valuable rewards than this one.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 80",
"reading": "Willingness is a peculiar thing for me in that, over a period
of time, it seems to come, first with awareness, but then
with a feeling of discomfort, making me want to take some
action. As I reflected on taking the Eighth Step, my
willingness to make amends to others came as a desire for
forgiveness, of others and myself. I felt forgiveness toward
others after I became aware of my part in the difficulties of
relationships. I wanted to feel the peace and serenity
described in the Promises. From working the first seven
Steps, I became aware of whom I had harmed and that I had
been my own worst enemy. In order to restore my
relationships with my fellow human beings, I knew I would
have to change. I wanted to learn to live in harmony with
myself and others so that I could also live in emotional
freedom. The beginning of the end to my isolation— from
my fellows and from God—came when I wrote my Eighth
Step list."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "21",
"title": "WE JUST TRY",
"quote": "y stability came out of trying to give, not out of
demanding that I receive.",
"citation": "THE BEST OF BILL, pp. 46-47",
"reading": "As long as I try, with all my heart and soul, to pass along to
others what has been passed along to me, and do not
demand anything in return, life is good to me. Before
entering this program of Alcoholics Anonymous I was
never able to give without demanding something in return.
Little did I know that, once I began to give freely of myself,
I would begin to receive, without ever expecting or
demanding anything at all. What I receive today is the gift
of 'stability,' as Bill did: stability in my A.A. program;
within myself; but most of all, in my relationship with my
Higher Power, whom I choose to call God."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "22",
"title": "SEEKING EMOTIONAL STABILITY",
"quote": "hen we developed still more, we discovered the best
possible source of emotional stability to be God Himself. We
found that dependence upon His perfect justice, forgiveness,
and love was healthy, and that it would work where nothing
else would. If we really depended upon God, we couldn't
very well play God to our fellows nor would we feel the
urge wholly to rely on human protection and care.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 116",
"reading": "All my life I depended on people for my emotional needs
and security, but today I cannot live that way anymore. By
the grace of God, I have admitted my powerlessness over
people, places and things. I had been a real 'people addict';
wherever I went there had to be someone who would pay
some kind of attention to me. It was the kind of attitude that
could only get worse, because the more I depended on
others and demanded attention, the less I received.
I have given up believing that any human power can
relieve me of that empty feeling. Although I remain a
fragile human being who needs to work A.A.'s Steps to
keep this particular principle before my personality, it is
only a loving God who can give me inner peace and
emotional stability."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "23",
"title": "BRINGING THE MESSAGE HOME",
"quote": "an we bring the same spirit of love and tolerance into our
sometimes deranged family lives that we bring to our A.A.
group?",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 111-12",
"reading": "My family members suffer from the effects of my disease.
Loving and accepting them as they are— just as I love and
accept A.A. members—fosters a return of love, tolerance
and harmony to my life. Using common courtesy and
respecting others' personal boundaries are necessary
practices for all areas of my life."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "24",
"title": "A RIDDLE THAT WORKS",
"quote": "t may be possible to find explanations of spiritual
experiences such as ours, but I have often tried to explain
my own and have succeeded only in giving the story of it. I
know the feeling it gave me and the results it has brought,
but I realize I may never fully understand its deeper why
and how.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 313",
"reading": "I had a profound spiritual experience during an open A.A.
meeting, which led me to blurt out, 'I'm an alcoholic!' I
have not had a drink since that day. I can tell you the words
I heard just prior to my admission, and how those words
affected me, but as to why it happened, I do not know. I
believe a power greater than myself chose me to recover,
yet I do not know why. I try not to worry or wonder about
what I do not yet know; instead, I trust that if I continue to
work the Steps, practice the A.A. principles in my life, and
share my story, I will be guided lovingly toward a deep and
mature spirituality in which more will be revealed to me.
For the time being, it is a gift for me to trust God, work the
Steps and help others."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "25",
"title": "THE GIFT OF BONDING",
"quote": "elieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do Thy
will",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 63",
"reading": "Many times in my alcoholic state, I drank to establish a
bond between myself and others, but I succeeded only in
establishing the bondage of alcoholic loneliness. Through
the A.A. way of life, I have received the gift of bonding—
with those who were there before me, with those who are
there now, and with those yet to come. For this gracious
gift from God, I am forever grateful."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "26",
"title": "GIVING IT AWAY",
"quote": "hough they knew they must help other alcoholics if they
would remain sober, that motive became secondary. It was
transcended by the happiness they found in giving
themselves to others.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 159",
"reading": "Those words, for me, refer to a transference of power,
through which God, as I understand Him, enters my life.
Through prayer and meditation, I open channels, then I
establish and improve my conscious contact with God.
Through action I then receive the power I need to maintain
my sobriety each day. By maintaining my spiritual
condition, by giving away what has been so freely given to
me, I am granted a daily reprieve."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "27",
"title": "CENTERING OUR THOUGHTS",
"quote": "hen World War II broke out, our A. A. dependence on a
Higher Power had its first major test. A.A.'s entered the
services and were scattered all over the world. Would they
be able to take the discipline, stand up under fire, and
endure . . . ?",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 200",
"reading": "I will center my thoughts on a Higher Power. I will
surrender all to this power within me. I will become a
soldier for this power, feeling the might of the spiritual
army as it exists in my life today. I will allow a wave of
spiritual union to connect me through my gratitude,
obedience and discipline to this Higher Power. Let me
allow this power to lead me through the orders of the day.
May the steps I take today strengthen my words and deeds,
may I know that the message I carry is mine to share, given
freely by this power greater than myself."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "28",
"title": "LIGHTENING THE BURDEN",
"quote": "howing others who suffer how we were given help is the
very thing which makes life seem so worth while to us now.
. . . the dark past is . . . the key to life and happiness for
others.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 124",
"reading": "Since I have been sober, I have been healed of many pains:
deceiving my partner, deserting my best friend, and
spoiling my mother's hopes for my life. In each case
someone in the program told me of a similar problem, and I
was able to share what happened to me. When my story
was told, both of us got up with lighter hearts."}
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "29",
"title": "I CHOOSE ANONYMITY",
"quote": "e are sure that humility, expressed by anonymity, is the
greatest safeguard that Alcoholics Anonymous can ever
have.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 187",
"reading": "Since there are no rules in A.A. I place myself where I want
to be, and so I choose anonymity. I want my God to use
me, humbly, as one of His tools in this program. Sacrifice
is the art of giving of myself freely, allowing humility to
replace my ego. With sobriety, I suppress that urge to cry
out to the world, 'I am a member of A.A.' and I experience
inner joy and peace. I let people see the changes in me and
hope they will ask what happened to me. I place the
principles of spirituality ahead of judging, fault-finding,
and criticism. I want love and caring in my group, so I can
grow. 
AUGUST 30
THE ONLY REQUIREMENT . . .
'At one time . . . every A. A. group had many membership
rules. Everybody was scared witless that something or
somebody would capsize the boat. . . . The total list was a
mile long. If all those rules had been in effect everywhere,
nobody could have possibly joined A.A. at all, ...'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 139-40",
"reading": "I'm grateful that the Third Tradition only requires of me a
desire to stop drinking. I had been breaking promises for
years. In the Fellowship I didn't have to make promises, I
didn't have to concentrate. It only required my attending
one meeting, in a foggy condition, to know I was home. I
didn't have to pledge undying love. Here, strangers hugged
me. 'It gets better,' they said, and 'One day at a time, you
can do it.' They were no longer strangers, but caring
friends. I ask God to help me to reach out to people desiring
sobriety, and to, please, keep me grateful! }
,
{ "month": "AUGUST",
"day": "31",
"title": "A UNIQUE PROGRAM",
"quote": "lcoholics Anonymous will never have a professional class.
We have gained some understanding of the ancient words
'Freely ye have received, freely give.' We have discovered
that at the point of professionalism, money and spirituality
do not mix.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 166",
"reading": "I believe that Alcoholics Anonymous stands alone in the
treatment of alcoholism because it is based solely on the
principle of one alcoholic sharing with another alcoholic.
This is what makes the program unique. When I decided
that I wanted to stay sober, I called a woman who I knew
was a sober member of A.A., and she carried the message
of Alcoholics Anonymous to me. She received no monetary
compensation, but rather was paid by staying sober another
day herself. Today I could ask for no payment other than
another day free from alcohol, so in that respect, I am
generously paid for my labor. 
}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "1",
"title": "WILLINGNESS TO GROW",
"quote": "If more gifts are to be received, our awakening has to go
on.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 8",
"reading": "Sobriety fills the painful 'hole in the soul' that my
alcoholism created. Often I feel so physically well that I
believe my work is done. However, joy is not just the
absence of pain; it is the gift of continued spiritual
awakening. Joy comes from ongoing and active study, as
well as application of the principles of recovery in my
everyday life, and from sharing that experience with others.
My Higher Power presents many opportunities for deeper
spiritual awakening. I need only to bring into my recovery
the willingness to grow. Today I am ready to grow."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "2",
FINDING "title": "'A REASON TO BELIEVE'",
"quote": "The willingness to grow is the essence of all spiritual
development.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 171",
"reading": "A line from a song goes, '. . . and I look to find a reason to
believe . . .' It reminds me that at one time I was not able to
find a reason to believe that my life was all right. Even
though my life had been saved by my coming to A.A.,
three }
,
{ months later I went out and drank again. Someone
told me: 'You don't have to believe. Aren't you willing to
believe that there is a reason for your life, even though you
may not know yourself what that reason is, or that you may
not sometimes know the right way to behave?' When I saw
how willing I was to believe there was a reason for my life,
then I could start to work on the Steps. Now when I begin
with, 'I am willing. . . ,' I am using the key that leads to action,
honesty, and an openness to a Higher Power moving
through my life."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "3",
"title": "BUILDING A NEW LIFE",
"quote": "We feel a man is unthinking when he says sobriety is
enough.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 82",
"reading": "When I reflect on Step Nine, I see that physical sobriety
must be enough for me. I need to remember the
hopelessness I felt before I found sobriety, and how I was
willing to go to any lengths for it. Physical sobriety is not
enough for those around me, however, since I must see that
God's gift is used to build a new life for my family and
loved ones. Just as importantly, I must be available to help
others who want the A.A. way of life.
I ask God to help me share the gift of sobriety so that its
benefits may be shown to those I know and love."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "4",
"title": "RECONSTRUCTION",
"quote": "Yes, there is a long period of reconstruction ahead . . .",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 83",
"reading": "The reconstruction of my life is the prime goal in my
recovery as I avoid taking that first drink, one day at a
time. The task is most successfully accomplished by
working the Steps of our Fellowship. The spiritual life is
not a theory; it works, but I have to live it. Step Two
started me on my journey to develop a spiritual life; Step
Nine allows me to move into the final phase of the initial
Steps which taught me how to live a spiritual life. Without
the guidance and strength of a Higher Power, it would be
impossible to proceed through the various stages of
reconstruction. I realize that God works for me and through
me. Proof comes to me when I realize that God did for me
what I could not do for myself, by removing that gnawing
compulsion to drink. I must continue daily to seek God's
guidance. He grants me a daily reprieve and will provide
the power I need for reconstruction."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "5",
"title": "EMOTIONAL BALANCE",
"quote": "Made direct amends to such people wherever possible, . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 83",
"reading": "When I survey my drinking days, I recall many people
whom my life touched casually, but whose days I troubled
through my anger and sarcasm. These people are
untraceable, and direct amends to them are not possible.
The only amends I can make to those untraceable
individuals, the only 'changes for the better' I can offer, are
indirect amends made to other people, whose paths briefly
cross mine. Courtesy and kindness, regularly practiced,
help me to live in emotional balance, at peace with myself."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "6",
"title": "REMOVING THREATS TO SOBRIETY",
"quote": ". . . except when to do so would injure them or others.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 59",
"reading": "Step Nine restores in me a feeling of belonging, not only to
the human race but also to the everyday world. First, the
Step makes me leave the safety of A.A., so that I may deal
with non-A.A. people 'out there,' on their terms, not mine.
It is a frightening but necessary action if I am to get back
into life. Second, Step Nine allows me to remove threats to
my sobriety by healing past relationships. Step Nine points
the way to a more serene sobriety by letting me clear away
past wreckage, lest it bring me down."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "7",
"title": "'OUR SIDE OF THE STREET'",
"quote": "We are there to sweep off our side of the street, realizing
that nothing worth while can be accomplished until we do
so, never trying to tell him what he should do. His faults
are not discussed. We stick to our own.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 77-78",
"reading": "I made amends to my dad soon after I quit drinking. My
words fell on deaf ears since I had blamed him for my
troubles. Several }
,
{ months later I made amends to my dad
again. This time I wrote a letter in which I did not blame
him nor mention his faults. It worked, and at last I
understood! My side of the street is all that I'm responsible
for and— thanks to God and A.A.—it's clean for today."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "8",
"title": "'WE ASKED HIS PROTECTION'",
"quote": "We asked His protection and care with complete abandon.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 59",
"reading": "I could not manage my life alone. I had tried that road and
failed. My 'ultimate sin' dragged me down to the lowest
level I have ever reached and, unable even to function, I
accepted the fact that I desperately needed help. I stopped
fighting and surrendered entirely to God.
Only then did I start growing! God forgave me. A
Higher Power had to have saved me, because the doctors
doubted that I would survive. I have forgiven myself now
and I enjoy a freedom I have never before experienced. I've
opened my heart and mind to Him. The more I learn, the
less I know—a humbling fact—but I sincerely want to
keep growing. I enjoy serenity, but only when I entrust my
life totally to God. As long as I am honest with myself and
ask for His help, I can maintain this rewarding existence.
Just for today, I strive to live His will for me— soberly.
I thank God that today I can choose not to drink. Today,
life is beautiful! }
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "9",
"title": "OPENING NEW DOORS",
"quote": "They [the Promises] are being fulfilled among us—
sometimes quickly, sometimes slowly.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "The Promises talked about in this passage are slowly
coming to life for me. What has given me hope is putting
Step Nine into action. The Step has allowed me to see and
set goals for myself in recovery.
Old habits and behaviors die hard. Working Step Nine
enables me to close the door on the drunk I was, and to
open new avenues for myself as a sober alcoholic. Making
direct amends is crucial for me. As I repair relationships
and behavior of the past, I am better able to live a sober
life!
Although I have some years of sobriety, there are times
when the 'old stuff' from the past needs to be taken care
of, and Step Nine always works, when I work it. 
SEPTEMBER 10
RECOVERY BY PROXY?
They [the Promises] will always materialize if we work for
them.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "Sometimes I think: 'Making these amends is going too far!
No one should have to humble himself like that!' However,
it is this very humbling of myself that brings me that much
closer to the sunlight of the spirit. A.A. is the only hope I
have if I am to continue healing and gain a life of
happiness, friendship and harmony."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "11",
"title": "MAKING AMENDS",
"quote": "bove all, we should try to be absolutely sure that we are
not delaying because we are afraid.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 87",
"reading": "To have courage, to be unafraid, are gifts of my recovery.
They empower me to ask for help and to go forth in making
my amends with a sense of dignity and humility. Making
amends may require a certain amount of honesty that I feel
I lack, yet with the help of God and the wisdom of others, I
can reach within and find the strength to act. My amends
may be accepted, or they may not, but after they are
completed I can walk with a sense of freedom and know
that, for today, I am responsible."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "12",
"title": "I AM RESPONSIBLE",
"quote": "or the readiness to take the full consequences of our past
acts, and to take responsibility for the well-being of others
at the same time, is the very spirit of Step Nine.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 87",
"reading": "In recovery, and through the help of Alcoholics
Anonymous, I learn that the very thing I fear is my
freedom. It comes from my tendency to recoil from taking
responsibility for anything: I deny, I ignore, I blame, I
avoid. Then one day, I look, I admit, I accept. The freedom,
the healing and the recovery I experience is in the looking,
admitting and accepting. I learn to say, 'Yes, I am
responsible.' When I can speak those words with honesty
and sincerity, then I am free."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "13",
"title": "REPAIRING THE DAMAGE",
"quote": "ood judgment, a careful sense of timing courage and
prudence—these are the qualities we shall need when we
take Step Nine.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 83",
"reading": "To make amends can be viewed two ways: first, that of
repairing damage, for if I have damaged my neighbor's
fence, I 'make a mend,' and that is a direct amend; the
second way is by modifying my behavior, for if my actions
have harmed someone, I make a daily effort to cause no
further harm. I 'mend my ways,' and that is an indirect
amend. Which is the best approach? The only right approach,
provided that I am causing no further harm in so
doing, is to do both. If harm is done, then I simply 'mend
my ways.' To take action in this manner assures me of
making honest amends."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "14",
"title": "PEACE OF MIND",
"quote": "o we lay the matter before our sponsor or spiritual
adviser, earnestly asking God's help and guidance—
meanwhile resolving to do the right thing when it becomes
clear, cost what it may?",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 86-87",
"reading": "My belief in a Higher Power is an essential part of my
work on Step Nine; forgiveness, timing, and right motives
are the other ingredients. My willingness to do the Step is a
growing experience that opens the door for new and honest
relationships with the people I have harmed. My
responsible action brings me closer to the spiritual
principles of the program—love and service. Peace of
mind, serenity, and a stronger faith are sure to follow."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "15",
"title": "A NEW LIFE",
"quote": "es, there is a substitute and it is vastly more than that. It is
a fellowship in Alcoholics Anonymous. . . . Life will mean
something at last",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 152",
"reading": "Life is better without alcohol. A.A. and the presence of a
Higher Power keeps me sober, but the grace of God does
even better; it brings service into my life. Contact with the
A.A. program teaches me a new and greater understanding
of what Alcoholics Anonymous is and what it does, but
most importantly, it helps to show me who I am: an alcoholic
who needs the constant experience of the Alcoholics
Anonymous program so that I may live a life given to me
by my Higher Power."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "16",
WE STAND—OR FALL—TOGETHER
. . . no society of men and women ever had a more urgent
need for continuous effectiveness and permanent unity. We
alcoholics see that we must work together and hang
together, else most of us will finally die alone.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 562",
"reading": "Just as the Twelve Steps of A.A. are written in a specific
sequence for a reason, so it is with the Twelve Traditions.
The First Step and the First Tradition attempt to instill in
me enough humility to allow me a chance at survival.
Together they are the basic foundation upon which the
Steps and Traditions that follow are built. It is a process of
ego deflation which allows me to grow as an individual
through the Steps, and as a contributing member of a group
through the Traditions. Full acceptance of the First
Tradition allows me to set aside personal ambitions, fears
and anger when they are in conflict with the common good,
thus permitting me to work with others for our mutual
survival. Without Tradition One I stand little chance of
maintaining the unity required to work with others
effectively, and I also stand to lose the remaining
Traditions, the Fellowship, and my life."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "17",
"title": "FREEDOM FROM FEAR",
"quote": "hen, with God's help, we calmly accepted our lot, then we
found we could live at peace with ourselves and show
others who still suffered the same fears that they could get
over them, too. We found that freedom from fear was more
important than freedom from want.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 122",
"reading": "Material values ruled my life for many years during my
active alcoholism. I believed that all of my possessions
would make me happy, yet I still felt bankrupt after I
obtained them. When I first came into A.A., I found out
about a new way of living. As a result of learning to trust
others, I began to believe in a power greater than myself.
Having faith freed me from the bondage of self. As material
gains were replaced by the gifts of the spirit, my life
became manageable. I then chose to share my experiences
with other alcoholics."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "18",
"title": "LOVED BACK TO RECOVERY",
"quote": "ur whole treasured philosophy of self-sufficiency had to
be cast aside. This had not been done with old-fashioned
willpower; it was instead a matter of developing the
willingness to accept these new facts of living. We neither
ran nor fought. But accept we did And then we were free.
BEST OF THE GRAPEVINE, Vol.
"citation": " I, p. 198",
"reading": "I can be free of my old enslaving self. After a while I
recognize, and believe in, the good within myself. I see that
I have been loved back to recovery by my Higher Power,
who envelops me. My Higher Power becomes that source
of love and strength that is performing a continuing miracle
in me. I am sober . . . and I am grateful."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "19",
"title": "ACCEPTANCE",
"quote": "e admitted we couldn't lick alcohol with our own
remaining resources, and so we accepted the further fact
that dependence upon a Higher Power (if only our A.A
group) could do this hitherto impossible job. The moment
we were able to accept these facts fully, our release from
the alcohol compulsion had begun.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 109",
"reading": "Freedom came to me only with my acceptance that I could
turn my will and my life over to the care of my Higher
Power, whom I call God. Serenity seeped into the chaos of
my life when I accepted that what I was going through was
life, and that God would help me through my difficulties—
and much more, as well. Since then He has helped me
through all of my difficulties! When I accept situations as
they are, not as I wish them to be, then I can begin to grow
and have serenity and peace of mind. 
SEPTEMBER 20
H.P. AS GUIDE
See to it that your relationship with Him is right, and great
events will come to pass for you and countless others. This
is the Great Fact for us.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 164",
"reading": "Having a right relationship with God seemed to be an
impossible order. My chaotic past had left me filled with
guilt and remorse and I wondered how this 'God business'
could work. A.A. told me that I must turn my will and my
life over to the care of God, as I understand Him. With
nowhere else to turn, I went down on my knees and cried,
'God, I can't do this. Please help me!' It was when I admitted
my powerlessness that a glimmer of light began to
touch my soul, and then a willingness emerged to let God
control my life. With Him as my guide, great events began
to happen, and I found the beginning of sobriety."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "21",
"title": "THE LAST PROMISE",
"quote": "e will suddenly realize that God is doing for us what we
could not do for ourselves.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "The last Promise in the Big Book came true for me on the
very first day of sobriety. God kept me sober that day, and
on every other day I allowed Him to operate in my life. He
gives me the strength, courage and guidance to meet my
responsibilities in life so that I am then able to reach out
and help others stay sober and grow. He manifests within
me, making me a channel of His word, thought and deed.
He works with my inner self, while I produce in the outer
world, for He will not do for me what I can do for myself. I
must be willing to do His work, so that He can function
through me successfully."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "22",
"title": "'LIMITLESS LODE'",
"quote": "Like a gaunt prospector, belt drawn in over the last ounce
of food, our pick struck gold. Joy at our release from a
lifetime of frustration knew no bounds. Father feels he has
struck something better than gold. For a time he may try to
hug the new treasure to himself. He may not see at once
that he has barely scratched a limitless lode which will pay
dividends only if he mines it for the rest of his life and
insists on giving away the entire product.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 128-29",
"reading": "When I talk with a newcomer to A.A., my past looks me
straight in the face. I see the pain in those hopeful eyes, I
extend my hand, and then the miracle happens: / become
healed. My problems vanish as I reach out to this trembling
soul."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "23",
"title": "'I WAS AN EXCEPTION'",
"quote": "He [Bill W.] said to me, gently and simply, 'Do you think
that you are one of us?'",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 413",
"reading": "During my drinking life I was convinced I was an
exception. I thought I was beyond petty requirements and
had the right to be excused. I never realized that the dark
counterbalance of my attitude was the constant feeling that
I did not 'belong.' At first, in A.A., I identified with others
only as an alcoholic. What a wonderful awakening for me
it has been to realize that, if human beings were doing the
best they could, then so was I! All of the pains, confusions
and joys they feel are not exceptional, but part of my life,
just as much as anybody's."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "24",
"title": "VIGILANCE",
"quote": "e have seen the truth demonstrated again and again:
'Once an alcoholic, always an alcoholic' Commencing to
drink after a period of sobriety, we are in a short time as
bad as ever. If we are planning to stop drinking, there must
be no reservation of any kind, nor any lurking notion that
someday we will be immune to alcohol",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 33",
"reading": "Today I am an alcoholic. Tomorrow will be no different.
My alcoholism lives within me now and forever. I must
never forget what I am. Alcohol will surely kill me if I fail
to recognize and acknowledge my disease on a daily basis.
I am not playing a game in which a loss is a temporary
setback. I am dealing with my disease, for which there is
no cure, only daily acceptance and vigilance."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "25",
"title": "FIRST THINGS FIRST",
"quote": "ome of us have taken very hard knocks to learn this truth:
Job or no job—wife or no wife—we simply do not stop
drinking so long as we place dependence upon other
people ahead of dependence on God.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 98",
"reading": "Before coming to A.A., I always had excuses for taking a
drink: 'She said . . . ,' 'He said 'I got fired yesterday,' 'I
got a great job today.' No area of my life could be good if I
drank again. In sobriety my life gets better each day. I must
always remember not to drink, to trust God, and to stay
active in A.A. Am I putting anything before my sobriety,
God, and A.A. today? }
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "26",
"title": "OUR CHILDREN",
"quote": "he alcoholic may find it hard to re-establish friendly
relations with his children. . . . In time they will see that he
is a new man and in their own way they will let him know
it. . . . From that point on, progress will be rapid.
Marvelous results often follow such a reunion.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 134",
"reading": "While on the road to recovery I received a gift that could
not be purchased. It was a card from my son in college,
saying, 'Dad, you can't imagine how glad I am that
everything is okay. Happy Birthday, I love you.' My son
had told me that he loved me before. It had been during the
previous Christmas holidays, when he had said to me,
while crying, 'Dad, I love you! Can't you see what you're
doing to yourself?' I couldn't. Choked with emotion, I had
cried, but this time, when I received my son's card, my tears
were tears of joy, not desperation."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "27",
"title": "WITHOUT RESERVATION",
"quote": "hen brimming with gratitude, one's heartbeat must surely
result in outgoing love, . . .",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 37",
"reading": "While practicing service to others, if my successes give rise
to grandiosity, I must reflect on what brought me to this
point. What has been given joyfully, with love, must be
passed on without reservation and without expectation. For
as I grow, I find that no matter how much I give with love,
I receive much more in spirit."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "28",
"title": "LOVE WITHOUT STRINGS",
"quote": "ractical experience shows that nothing will so much
insure immunity from drinking as intensive work with other
alcoholics.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 89",
"reading": "Sponsorship held two surprises for me. First, that my
sponsees cared about me. What I had thought was gratitude
was more like love. They wanted me to be happy, to grow
and remain sober. Knowing how they felt kept me from
drinking more than once. Second, I discovered that I was
able to love someone else responsibly, with respectful and
genuine concern for that person's growth. Before that time,
I had thought that my ability to care sincerely about
another's well-being had atrophied from lack of use. To
learn that I can love, without greed or anxiety, has been
one of the deepest gifts the program has given me.
Gratitude for that gift has kept me sober many times."}
,
{ "month": "SEPTEMBER",
"day": "29",
"title": "EXACTLY ALIKE",
"quote": "requent contact with newcomers and with each other is
the bright spot of our lives.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 89",
"reading": "A man came to the meeting drunk, interrupted the speakers,
stood up and took his shirt off, staggered loudly back and
forth for coffee, demanded to talk, and eventually called
the group's secretary an unquotable name and walked out. I
was glad he was there—once again I saw what I had been
like. But I also saw what I still am, and what I still could
be. I don't have to be drunk to want to be the exception and
the center of attention. I have often felt abused and
responded abusively when I was simply being treated as a
garden variety human being. The more the man tried to
insist he was different, the more I realized that he and I
were exactly alike. 
SEPTEMBER 30
THE CIRCLE AND THE TRIANGLE
The circle stands for the whole world of A.A., and the
triangle stands for A.A.'s Three Legacies of Recovery,
Unity, and Service. Within our wonderful new world, we
have found freedom from our fatal obsession.
A.A.
"citation": " COMES OF AGE, p. 139",
"reading": "Early in my A.A. life, I became employed in its services
and I found the explanation of our society's logo to be very
appropriate. First, a circle of love and service with a wellbalanced
triangle inside, the base of which represents our
Recovery through the Twelve Steps. Then the other two
sides, representing Unity and Service, respectively. The
three sides of the triangle are equal. As I grew in A.A. I
soon identified myself with this symbol. I am the circle,
and the sides of the triangle represent three aspects of my
personality: physical, emotional sanity, spirituality, the
latter forming the symbol's base. Taken together, all three
aspects of my personality translate into a sober and happy
life."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "1",
"title": "LEST WE BECOME COMPLACENT",
"quote": "It is easy to let up on the spiritual program of action and
rest on our laurels. We are headed for trouble if we do, for
alcohol is a subtle foe.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 85",
"reading": "When I am in pain it is easy to stay close to the friends I
have found in the program. Relief from that pain is
provided in the solutions contained in A.A.'s Twelve Steps.
But when I am feeling good and things are going well, I can
become complacent. To put it simply, I become lazy and
turn into the problem instead of the solution. I need to get
into action, to take stock: where am I and where am I
going? A daily inventory will tell me what I must change to
regain spiritual balance. Admitting what I find within
myself, to God and to another human being, keeps me
honest and humble."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "2",
"title": "'THE ACID TEST'",
"quote": "As we work the first nine Steps, we prepare ourselves for
the adventure of a new life. But when we approach Step Ten
we commence to put our A.A. way of living to practical use,
day by day, in fair weather or foul Then comes the acid
test: can we stay sober, keep in emotional balance, and live
to good purpose under all conditions?",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 88",
"reading": "I know the Promises are being fulfilled in my life, but I
want to maintain and develop them by the daily application
of Step Ten. I have learned through this Step that if I am
disturbed, there is something wrong with me. The other
person may be wrong too, but I can only deal with my
feelings. When I am hurt or upset, I have to continually
look for the cause in me, and then I have to admit and
correct my mistakes. It isn't easy, but as long as I know I
am progressing spiritually, I know that I can mark my effort
up as a job well done. I have found that pain is a friend; it
lets me know there is something wrong with my emotions,
just as a physical pain lets me know there is something
wrong with my body. When I take the appropriate action
through the Twelve Steps, the pain gradually goes away."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "3",
"title": "SERENITY AFTER THE STORM",
"quote": "Someone who knew what he was talking about once
remarked that pain was the touchstone of all spiritual
progress. How heartily we A.A. 's can agree with him. . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 93-94",
"reading": "When on the roller coaster of emotional turmoil, I
remember that growth is often painful. My evolution in the
A.A. program has taught me that I must experience the
inner change, however painful, that eventually guides me
from selfishness to selflessness. If I am to have serenity, I
must STEP my way past emotional turmoil and its
subsequent hangover, and be grateful for continuing
spiritual progress."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "4",
"title": "A NECESSARY PRUNING",
"quote": ". . . we know that the pains of drinking had to come before
sobriety, and emotional turmoil before serenity.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 94",
"reading": "I love spending time in my garden feeding and pruning my
beautiful flowers. One day, as I was busily snipping away,
a neighbor stopped by. She commented, 'Oh! Your plants
are so beautiful, it seems such a shame to cut them back.' I
replied, 'I know how you feel, but the excess must be
removed so they can grow stronger and healthier.' Later I
thought that perhaps my plants feel pain, but God and I
know it's part of the plan and I've seen the results. I was
quickly reminded of my precious A.A. program and how
we all grow through pain. I ask God to prune me when it's
time, so I can grow."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "5",
YESTERDAY'S BAGGAGE
For the wise have always known that no one can make
much of his life until self-searching becomes a regular
habit, until he is able to admit and accept what he finds,
and until he patiently and persistently tries to correct what
is wrong.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 88",
"reading": "I have more than enough to handle today, without dragging
along yesterday's baggage too. I must balance today's
books, if I am to have a chance tomorrow. So I ask myself
if I have erred and how I can avoid repeating that particular
behavior. Did I hurt anyone, did I help anyone, and why?
Some of today is bound to spill over into tomorrow, but
most of it need not if I make an honest daily inventory."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "6",
FACING OURSELVES . . . and Fear says,
'You dare not look!'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 49",
"reading": "How often I avoided a task in my drinking days just
because it appeared so large! Is it any wonder, even if I
have been sober for some time, that I will act that same
way when faced with what appears to be a monumental
job, such as a searching and fearless moral inventory of
myself? What I discover after I have arrived at the other
side—when my inventory is completed—is that the illusion
was greater than the reality. The fear of facing myself kept
me at a standstill and, until I became willing to put pencil
to paper, I was arresting my growth based on an intangible."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "7",
DAILY MONITORING Continued to take
personal inventory. . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 88",
"reading": "The spiritual axiom referred to in the Tenth Step— 'every
time we are disturbed, no matter what the cause, there is
something wrong with us'—also tells me that there are no
exceptions to it. No matter how unreasonable others may
seem, I am responsible for not reacting negatively.
Regardless of what is happening around me I will always
have the prerogative, and the responsibility, of choosing
what happens within me. I am the creator of my own
reality.
When I take my daily inventory, I know that I must stop
judging others. If I judge others, I am probably judging
myself. Whoever is upsetting me most is my best teacher. I
have much to learn from him or her, and in my heart, I
should thank that person."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "8",
"title": "DAILY INVENTORY",
"quote": ". . . and when we were wrong promptly admitted it.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 59",
"reading": "I was beginning to approach my new life of sobriety with
unaccustomed enthusiasm. New friends were cropping up
and some of my battered friendships had begun to be
repaired. Life was exciting, and I even began to enjoy my
work, becoming so bold as to issue a report on the lack of
proper care for some of our clients. One day a co-worker
informed me that my boss was really sore because a
complaint, submitted over his head, had caused him much
discomfort at the hands of his superiors. I knew that my
report had created the problem, and began to feel
responsible for my boss's difficulty. In discussing the
affair, my co-worker tried to reassure me that an apology
was not necessary, but I soon became convinced that I had
to do something, regardless of how it might turn out. When
I approached my boss and owned up to my hand in his
difficulties, he was surprised. But unexpected things came
out of our encounter, and my boss and I were able to agree
to interact more directly and effectively in the future."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "9",
"title": "A SPIRITUAL AXIOM",
"quote": "It is a spiritual axiom that every time we are disturbed, no
matter what the cause, there is something wrong with us.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 90",
"reading": "I never truly understood the Tenth Step's spiritual axiom
until I had the following experience. I was sitting in my
bedroom, reading into the wee hours, when suddenly I
heard my dogs barking in the back yard. My neighbors
frown on this kind of disturbance so, with mixed feelings of
anger and shame, as well as fear of my neighbors'
disapproval, I immediately called in my dogs. Several
weeks later the exact situation repeated itself but this time,
because I was feeling more at peace with myself, I was able
to accept the situation—dogs will bark—and I calmly
called in the dogs. Both incidents taught me that when a
person experiences nearly identical events and reacts two
different ways, then it is not the event which is of prime
importance, but the person's spiritual condition. Feelings
come from inside, not from outward circumstances. When
my spiritual condition is positive, I react positively. 
OCTOBER 10
FIXING ME, NOT YOU
If somebody hurts us and we are sore, we are in the wrong
also.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 90",
"reading": "What a freedom I felt when this passage was pointed out to
me! Suddenly I saw that I could do something about my
anger, I could fix me, instead of trying to fix them. I
believe that there are no exceptions to the axiom. When I
am angry, my anger is always self-centered. I must keep
reminding myself that I am human, that I am doing the best
I can, even when that best is sometimes poor. So I ask God
to remove my anger and truly set me free."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "11",
SELF-RESTRAINT
Our first objective will be the development of self-restraint.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 91",
"reading": "My drive to work provides me with an opportunity for selfexamination.
One day while making this trip, I began to
review my progress in sobriety, and was not happy with
what I saw. I hoped that, as the work day progressed, I
would forget these troublesome thoughts, but as one
disappointment after another kept coming, my discontent
only increased, and the pressures within me kept mounting.
I retreated to an isolated table in the lounge, and asked
myself how I could make the most of the rest of the day. In
the past, when things went wrong, I instinctively wanted to
fight back. But during the short time I had been trying to
five the A.A. program I had learned to step back and take a
look at myself. I recognized that, although I was not the
person I wanted to be, I had learned to not react in my old
ways. Those old patterns of behavior only brought sorrow
and hurt, to me and to others. I returned to my work station,
determined to make the day a productive one, thanking
God for the chance to make progress that day."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "12",
"title": "CURBING RASHNESS",
"quote": "hen we speak or act hastily or rashly, the ability to be
fair-minded and tolerant evaporates on the spot.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 91",
"reading": "Being fair-minded and tolerant is a goal toward which I
must work daily. I ask God, as I understand Him, to help
me to be loving and tolerant to my loved ones, and to those
with whom I am in close contact. I ask for guidance to curb
my speech when I am agitated, and I take a moment to
reflect on the emotional upheaval my words may cause,
not only to someone else, but also to myself. Prayer,
meditation and inventories are the key to sound thinking
and positive action for me."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "13",
"title": "UNREMITTING INVENTORIES",
"quote": "ontinue to watch for selfishness, dishonesty, resentment,
and fear. When these crop up, we ask God at once to
remove them. We discuss them with someone immediately
and make amends quickly if we have harmed anyone. Then
we resolutely turn our thoughts to someone we can help.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "The immediate admission of wrong thoughts or actions is a
tough task for most human beings, but for recovering
alcoholics like me it is difficult because of my propensity
toward ego, fear and pride. The freedom the A.A. program
offers me becomes more abundant when, through
unremitting inventories of myself, I admit, acknowledge
and accept responsibility for my wrong-doing. It is possible
then for me to grow into a deeper and better understanding
of humility. My willingness to admit when the fault is mine
facilitates the progression of my growth and helps me to
become more understanding and helpful to others."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "14",
"title": "A PROGRAM FOR LIVING",
"quote": "hen we retire at night, we constructively review our day. .
. . On awakening let us think about the twenty-four hours
ahead. . . . Before we begin, we ask God to direct our
thinking, especially asking that it be divorced from selfpity,
dishonest or self-seeking motives.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 86",
"reading": "I lacked serenity. With more to do than seemed possible, I
fell further behind, no matter how hard I tried. Worries
about things not done yesterday and fear of tomorrow's
deadlines denied me the calm I needed to be effective each
day. Before taking Steps Ten and Eleven, I began to read
passages like the one cited above. I tried to focus on God's
will, not my problems, and to trust that He would manage
my day. It worked! Slowly, but it worked! }
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "15",
MY CHECKLIST, NOT YOURS
Gossip barbed with our anger, a polite form of murder by
character assassination, has its satisfactions for us, too.
Here we are not trying to help those we criticize; we are
trying to proclaim our own righteousness.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 67",
"reading": "Sometimes I don't realize that I gossiped about someone
until the end of the day, when I take an inventory of the
day's activities, and then, my gossiping appears like a
blemish in my beautiful day. How could I have said
something like that? Gossip shows its ugly head during a
coffee break or lunch with business associates, or I may
gossip during the evening, when I'm tired from the day's
activities, and feel justified in bolstering my ego at the
expense of someone else.
Character defects like gossip sneak into my life when I
am not making a constant effort to work the Twelve Steps of
recovery. I need to remind myself that my uniqueness is the
blessing of my being, and that applies equally to everyone
who crosses my path in life's journey. Today the only
inventory I need to take is my own. I'll leave judgment of
others to the Final Judge—Divine Providence."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "16",
"title": "THROUGHOUT EACH DAY",
"quote": "his is not an overnight matter. It should continue for our
lifetime.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 84",
"reading": "During my early years in A. A. I saw Step Ten as a
suggestion that I periodically look at my behavior and
reactions. If there was something wrong, I should admit it;
if an apology was necessary, I should give one. After a few
years of sobriety I felt I should undertake a selfexamination
more frequently. Not until several more years
of sobriety had elapsed did I realize the full meaning of
Step Ten, and the word 'continued.' 'Continued' does not
mean occasionally, or frequently. It means throughout each
day."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "17",
A DAILY TUNE-UP
Every day is a day when we must carry the vision of God's
will into all of our activities.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 85",
"reading": "How do I maintain my spiritual condition? For me it's quite
simple: on a daily basis I ask my Higher Power to grant me
the gift of sobriety for that day! I have talked to many
alcoholics who have gone back to drinking and I always ask
them: 'Did you pray for sobriety the day you took your first
drink?' Not one of them said yes. As I practice Step Ten
and try to keep my house in order on a daily basis, I have
the knowledge that if I ask for a daily reprieve, it will be
granted."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "18",
"title": "AN OPEN MIND",
"quote": "rue humility and an open mind can lead us to faith, . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 33",
"reading": "My alcoholic thinking led me to believe that I could control
my drinking, but I couldn't. When I came to A.A., I realized
that God was speaking to me through my group. My mind
was open just enough to know that I needed His help. A
real, honest acceptance of AA. took more time, but with it
came humility. I know how insane I was, and I am extremely
grateful to have my sanity restored to me and to be
a sober alcoholic. The new, sober me is a much better
person than I ever could have been without A.A."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "19",
A.A'S "title": "'MAIN TAPROOT'",
"quote": "The principle that we shall find no enduring strength until
we first admit complete defeat is the main taproot from
which our whole Society has sprung and flowered.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 21-22",
"reading": "Defeated, and knowing it, I arrived at the doors of A.A.,
alone and afraid of the unknown. A power outside of
myself had picked me up off my bed, guided me to the
phone book, then to the bus stop, and through the doors of
Alcoholics Anonymous. Once inside A.A. I experienced a
sense of being loved and accepted, something I had net felt
since early childhood. May I never lose the sense of wonder
I experienced on that first evening with A.A., the
greatest event of my entire life. 
OCTOBER 20
SOLACE FOR CONFUSION
Obviously, the dilemma of the wanderer from faith is that
of profound confusion. He thinks himself lost to the comfort
of any conviction at all He cannot attain in even a small
degree the assurance of the believer, the agnostic, or the
atheist. He is the bewildered one.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 28",
"reading": "The concept of God was one that I struggled with during
my early years of sobriety. The images that came to me,
conjured from my past, were heavy with fear, rejection and
condemnation. Then I heard my friend Ed's image of a
Higher Power: As a boy he had been allowed a Utter of
puppies, provided that he assume responsibility for their
care. Each morning he would find the unavoidable 'byproducts'
of the puppies on the kitchen floor. Despite
frustration, Ed said he couldn't get angry because 'that's the
nature of puppies.' Ed felt that God viewed our defects and
shortcomings with a similar understanding and warmth.
I've often found solace from my personal confusion in Ed's
calming concept of God."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "21",
"title": "NOTHING GROWS IN THE DARK",
"quote": "e will want the good that is in us all, even in the worst of
us, to flower and to grow.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 10",
"reading": "With the self-discipline and insight gained from practicing
Step Ten, I begin to know the gratifications of sobriety—
not as mere abstinence from alcohol, but as recovery in
every department of my life.
I renew hope, regenerate faith, and regain the dignity of
self-respect. I discover the word 'and' in the phrase 'and
when we were wrong, promptly admitted it.'
Reassured that I am no longer always wrong, I learn to
accept myself as I am, with a new sense of the miracles of
sobriety and serenity."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "22",
"title": "TRUE TOLERANCE",
"quote": "inally, we begin to see that all people, including
ourselves, are to some extent emotionally ill as well as
frequently wrong and then we approach true tolerance and
see what real love for our fellows actually means",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 92",
"reading": "The thought occurred to me that all people are emotionally
ill to some extent. How could we not be? Who among us is
spiritually perfect? Who among us is physically perfect?
How could any of us be emotionally perfect? Therefore,
what else are we to do but bear with one another and treat
each other as we would be treated in similar circumstances?
That is what love really is."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "23",
"title": "WHAT WE KNOW BEST",
"quote": "Shoemaker, stick to thy last!' . . . better do one thing
supremely well than many badly. That is the central theme
of this Tradition [Five]. Around it our Society gathers in
unity. The very life of our Fellowship requires the
preservation of this principle.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 150",
"reading": "The survival of A.A. depends upon unity. What would
happen if a group decided to become an employment
agency, a treatment center or a social service agency? Too
much specialization leads to no specialization, to frittering
of efforts and, finally, to decline. I have the qualifications
to share my sufferings and my way of recovery with the
newcomer. Conformity to A.A.'s primary purpose insures
the safety of the wonderful gift of sobriety, so my responsibility
is enormous. The life of millions of alcoholics
is closely tied to my competence in 'carrying the message
to the still-suffering alcoholic.' }
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "24",
"title": "'BY FAITH AND BY WORKS'",
"quote": "On anvils of experience, the structure of our Society was
hammered out. . . . Thus has it been with A.A. By faith and
by works we have been able to build upon the lessons of an
incredible experience. They live today in the Twelve
Traditions of Alcoholics Anonymous, which—God
willing—shall sustain us in unity for so long as He may
need us.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 131",
"reading": "God has allowed me the right to be wrong in order for our
Fellowship to exist as it does today. If I place God's will
first in my life, it is very likely that A.A. as I know it today
will remain as it is."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "25",
A.A.'s HEARTBEAT
Without unity, the heart of A.A. would cease to beat; . . .",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 125",
"reading": "Without unity I would be unable to recover in A.A. on a
daily basis. By practicing unity within my group, with other
A.A. members and at all levels of this great Fellowship, I
receive a pronounced feeling of knowing that I am a part of
a miracle that was divinely inspired. The ability of Bill W.
and Dr. Bob, working together and passing it on to other
members, tells me that to give it away is to keep it. Unity is
oneness and yet the whole Fellowship is for all of us."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "26",
"title": "ONE ULTIMATE AUTHORITY",
"quote": "or our group purpose there is but one ultimate authority—
a loving God as He may express Himself in our group
conscience.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 132",
"reading": "When I am chosen to carry some small responsibility for
my fellows, I ask that God grant me the patience, openmindedness,
and willingness to listen to those I would lead.
I must remind myself that I am the trusted servant of others,
not their 'governor,' 'teacher,' or 'instructor.' God guides
my words and my actions, and my responsibility is to heed
His suggestions. Trust is my watchword, I trust others who
lead. In the Fellowship of A.A., I entrust God with the
ultimate authority of 'running the show.' }
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "27",
"title": "GLOBAL SHARING",
"quote": "he only thing that matters is that he is an alcoholic who
has found a key to sobriety. These legacies of suffering and
of recovery are easily passed among alcoholics, one to the
other. This is our gift from God, and its bestowal upon
others like us is the one aim that today animates A. A. 's all
around the globe.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 151",
"reading": "The strength of Alcoholics Anonymous lies in the desire of
each member and of each group around the world to share
with other alcoholics their suffering and the steps taken to
gain, and maintain, recovery. By keeping a conscious
contact with my Higher Power, I make sure that I always
nurture my desire to help other alcoholics, thus insuring the
continuity of the wonderful fraternity of Alcoholics
Anonymous."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "28",
"title": "AN UNBROKEN TRADITION",
"quote": "e conceive the survival and spread of Alcoholics
Anonymous to be something of far greater importance than
the weight we could collectively throw back of any other
cause.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 177",
"reading": "How much it means to me that an unbroken tradition of
more than half a century is a thread that connects me to Bill
W. and Dr. Bob. How much more grounded I feel to be in a
Fellowship whose aims are constant and unflagging. I am
grateful that the energies of A.A. have never been
scattered, but focused instead on our members and on
individual sobriety.
My beliefs are what make me human; I am free to hold
any opinion, but A.A.'s purpose—so clearly stated fifty
years ago—is for me to keep sober. That purpose has
promoted round-the-clock meeting schedules, and the
thousands of intergroup and central service offices, with
their thousands of volunteers. Like the sun focused through
a magnifying glass, A.A.'s single vision has lit a fire of
faith in sobriety in millions of hearts, including mine."}
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "29",
"title": "OUR SURVIVAL",
"quote": "ince recovery from alcoholism is life itself to us, it is
imperative that we preserve in full strength our means of
survival.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 177",
"reading": "The honesty expressed by the members of A.A. in meetings
has the power to open my mind. Nothing can block the
flow of energy that honesty carries with it. The only
obstacle to this flow of energy is inebriation, but even then,
no one will find a closed door if he or she has left and
chooses to return. Once he or she has received the gift of
sobriety, each A.A. member is challenged on a daily basis
to accept a program of honesty.
My Higher Power created me for a purpose in life. I ask
him to accept my honest efforts to continue on my journey
in the spiritual way of life. I call on Him for strength to
know and seek His will. 
OCTOBER 30
LIVE AND LET LIVE
Never since it began has Alcoholics Anonymous been
divided by a major controversial issue. Nor has our
Fellowship ever publicly taken sides on any question in an
embattled world. This, however, has been no earned virtue.
It could almost be said that we were born with it. . . . 'So
long as we don't argue these matters privately, it's a cinch
we never shall publicly.'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 176",
"reading": "Do I remember that I have a right to my opinion but that
others don't have to share it? That's the spirit of 'Live and
Let Live.' The Serenity Prayer reminds me, with God's
help, to 'Accept the things I cannot change.' Am I still
trying to change others? When it comes to 'Courage to
change the things I can,' do I remember that my opinions
are mine, and yours are yours? Am I still afraid to be me?
When it comes to 'Wisdom to know the difference,' do I
remember that my opinions come from my experience? If I
have a know-it-all attitude, aren't I being deliberately
controversial? }
,
{ "month": "OCTOBER",
"day": "31",
"title": "AVOIDING CONTROVERSY",
"quote": "ll history affords us the spectacle of striving nations and
groups finally torn asunder because they were designed for,
or tempted into, controversy. Others fell apart because of
sheer self-righteousness while trying to enforce upon the
rest of mankind some millennium of their own specification.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 176",
"reading": "As an A.A. member and sponsor, I know I can cause real
damage if I yield to temptation and give opinions and
advice on another's medical, marital, or religious problems.
I am not a doctor, counselor, or lawyer. I cannot tell anyone
how he or she should live; however, I can share how I came
through similar situations without drinking, and how A.A.'s
Steps and Traditions help me in dealing with my life. 
}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "1",
"title": "I CANNOT CHANGE THE WIND",
"quote": "is easy to let up on the spiritual program of action and
rest on our laurels. We are headed for trouble if we do, for
alcohol is a subtle foe.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 85",
"reading": "My first sponsor told me there were two things to say about
prayer and meditation: first, I had to start and second, I had
to continue. When I came to A.A. my spiritual life was
bankrupt; if I considered God at all, He was to be called
upon only when my self-will was incapable of a task or
when overwhelming fears had eroded my ego.
Today I am grateful for a new life, one in which my
prayers are those of thanksgiving. My prayer time is more
for listening than for talking. I know today that if I cannot
change the wind, I can adjust my sail. I know the difference
between superstition and spirituality. I know there is a
graceful way of being right, and many ways to be wrong."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "2",
"title": "KEEPING OPTIMISM AFLOAT",
"quote": "The other Steps can keep most of us sober and somehow
functioning. But Step Eleven can keep us growing . . .",
"citation": "THE LANGUAGE OF THE HEART, p. 240",
"reading": "A sober alcoholic finds it much easier to be optimistic
about life. Optimism is the natural result of my finding
myself gradually able to make the best, rather than the
worst, of each situation. As my physical sobriety continues,
I come out of the fog, gain a clearer perspective and am
better able to determine what courses of action to take. As
vital as physical sobriety is, I can achieve a greater potential
for myself by developing an ever-increasing
willingness to avail myself of the guidance and direction of
a Higher Power. My ability to do so comes from my
learning—and practicing—the principles of the A.A.
program. The melding of my physical and spiritual sobriety
produces the substance of a more positive life."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "3",
"title": "FOCUSING AND LISTENING",
"quote": "There is a direct linkage among self-examination,
meditation, and prayer. Taken separately, these practices
can bring much relief and benefit.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 98",
"reading": "If I do my self-examination first, then surely, I'll have
enough humility to pray and meditate—because I'll see and
feel my need for them. Some wish to begin and end with
prayer, leaving the self-examination and meditation to take
place in between, whereas others start with meditation,
listening for advice from God about their still hidden or
unacknowledged defects. Still others engage in written and
verbal work on their defects, ending with a prayer of praise
and thanksgiving. These three-self-examination, meditation
and prayer—form a circle, without a beginning or an end.
No matter where, or how, I start, I eventually arrive at my
destination: a better life."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "4",
"title": "A DAILY DISCIPLINE",
"quote": ". . . when they [self-examination, meditation and prayer]
are logically related and interwoven, the result is an
unshakable foundation for life.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 98",
"reading": "The last three Steps of the program invoke God's loving
discipline upon my willful nature. If I devote just a few
moments every night to a review of the highlights of my
day, along with an acknowledgement of those aspects that
didn't please me so much, I gain a personal history of
myself, one that is essential to my journey into selfdiscovery.
I was able to note my growth, or lack of it, and to
ask in prayerful meditation to be relieved of those continuing
shortcomings that cause me pain. Meditation and
prayer also teach me the art of focusing and listening. I find
that the turmoil of the day gets tuned out as I pray for His
will and guidance. The practice of asking Him to help me in
my strivings for perfection puts a new slant on the tedium
of any day, because I know there is honor in any job done
well. The daily discipline of prayer and meditation will
keep me in fit spiritual condition, able to face whatever the
day brings—without the thought of a drink."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "5",
"title": "'THE QUALITY OF FAITH'",
"quote": "This . . . has to do with the quality of faith. . . . In no deep
or meaningful sense had we ever taken stock of ourselves. .
. . We had not even prayed rightly. We had always said,
'Grant me my wishes' instead of 'Thy will be done.'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 32",
"reading": "God does not grant me material possessions, take away my
suffering, or spare me from disasters, but He does give me
a good life, the ability to cope, and peace of mind. My
prayers are simple: first, they express my gratitude for the
good things in my life, regardless of how hard I have to
search for them; and second, I ask only for the strength and
the wisdom to do His will. He answers with solutions to my
problems, sustaining my ability to live through daily
frustrations with a serenity I did not believe existed, and
with the strength to practice the principles of A.A. in all of
my everyday affairs."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "6",
"title": "GOING WITH THE FLOW",
"quote": "Sought through prayer and meditation to improve our
conscious contact with God as we understood Him. . . .",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 96",
"reading": "The first words I speak when arising in the morning are, 'I
arise, O God, to do Thy will.' This is the shortest prayer I
know and it is deeply ingrained in me. Prayer doesn't
change God's attitude toward me; it changes my attitude
toward God. As distinguished from prayer, meditation is a
quiet time, without words. To be centered is to be
physically relaxed, emotionally calm, mentally focused and
spiritually aware.
One way to keep the channel open and to improve my
conscious contact with God is to maintain a grateful
attitude. On the days when I am grateful, good things seem
to happen in my life. The instant I start cursing things in
my life, however, the flow of good stops. God did not
interrupt the flow; my own negativity did."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "7",
"title": "LET GO AND LET GOD",
"quote": ". . . praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the
power to carry that out",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 96",
"reading": "When I 'Let Go and Let God,' I think more clearly and
wisely. Without having to think about it, I quickly let go of
things that cause me immediate pain and discomfort.
Because I find it hard to let go of the kind of worrisome
thoughts and attitudes that cause me immense anguish, all I
need do during those times is allow God, as I understand
Him, to release them for me, and then and there, I let go of
the thoughts, memories and attitudes that are troubling me.
When I receive help from God, as I understand Him, I
can live my life one day at a time and handle whatever
challenges that come my way. Only then can I live a life of
victory over alcohol, in comfortable sobriety."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "8",
"title": "AN INDIVIDUAL ADVENTURE",
"quote": "Meditation is something which can always be further
developed. It has no boundaries, either of width or height.
Aided by such instruction and example as we can find, it is
essentially an individual adventure, something which each
one of us works out in his own way.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 101",
"reading": "My spiritual growth is with God as I understand Him. With
Him I find my true inner self. Daily meditation and prayer
strengthen and renew my source of well-being. I receive
then the openness to accept all that He has to offer. With
God I have the reassurance that my journey will be as He
wants for me, and for that I am grateful to have God in my
life."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "9",
"title": "STEPPING INTO THE SUNLIGHT",
"quote": "But first of all we shall want sunlight; nothing much can
grow in the dark. Meditation is our step out into the sun.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 10",
"reading": "Sometimes I think I don't have time for prayer and
meditation, forgetting that I always found the time to drink.
It is possible to make time for anything I want to do if I
want it badly enough. When I start the routine of prayer
and meditation, it's a good idea to plan to devote a small
amount of time to it. I read a page from our Fellowship's
books in the morning, and say 'Thank You, God,' when I
go to bed at night. As prayer becomes a habit, I will increase
the time spent on it, without even noticing the foray
it makes into my busy day. If I have trouble praying, I just
repeat the Lord's Prayer because it really covers
everything. Then I think of what I can be grateful for and
say a word of thanks.
I don't need to shut myself in a closet to pray. It can be
done even in a room full of people. I just remove myself
mentally for an instant. As the practice of prayer continues,
I will find I don't need words, for God can, and does, hear
my thoughts through silence. 
NOVEMBER 10
A SENSE OF BELONGING
Perhaps one of the greatest rewards of meditation and
prayer is the sense of belonging that comes to us.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 105",
"reading": "That's what it is—belonging! After a session of meditation
I knew that the feeling I was experiencing was a sense of
belonging because I was so relaxed. I felt quieter inside,
more willing to discard little irritations. I appreciated my
sense of humor. What I also experience in my daily
practice is the sheer pleasure of belonging to the creative
flow of God's world. How propitious for us that prayer and
meditation are written right into our A.A. way of life."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "11",
SELF-ACCEPTANCE
We know that God lovingly watches over us. We know that
when we turn to Him, all will be well with us, here and
hereafter.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 105",
"reading": "I pray for the willingness to remember that I am a child of
God, a divine soul in human form, and that my most basic
and urgent life-task is to accept, know, love and nurture
myself. As I accept myself, I am accepting God's will. As I
know and love myself, I am knowing and loving God. As I
nurture myself I am acting on God's guidance.
I pray for the willingness to let go of my arrogant selfcriticism,
and to praise God by humbly accepting and
caring for myself."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "12",
"title": "MORNING THOUGHTS",
"quote": "sk Him in your morning meditation what you can do each
day for the man who is still sick",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 164",
"reading": "For many years I pondered over God's will for me,
believing that perhaps a great destiny had been ordained for
my life. After all, having been born into a specific faith,
hadn't I been told early that I was 'chosen'? It finally
occurred to me, as I considered the above passage, that
God's will for me was simply that I practice Step Twelve
on a daily basis. Furthermore, I realized I should do this to
the best of my ability. I soon learned that the practice aids
me in keeping my life in the context of the day at hand."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "13",
"title": "LOOKING OUTWARD",
"quote": "e ask especially for freedom from self-will, and are
careful to make no requests for ourselves only. We may ask
for ourselves, however, if others will be helped We are
careful never to pray for our own selfish ends.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 87",
"reading": "As an active alcoholic, I allowed selfishness to run rampant
in my life. I was so attached to my drinking and other
selfish habits that people and moral principles came
second. Now, when I pray for the good of others rather
than my 'own selfish ends,' I practice a discipline in letting
go of selfish attachments, caring for my fellows and
preparing for the day when I will be required to let go of all
earthly attachments."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "14",
"title": "INTUITION AND INSPIRATION",
"quote": " . we ask God for inspiration, an intuitive thought >r a
decision. We relax and take it easy. We don't struggle.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 86",
"reading": "[ invest my time in what I truly love. Step Eleven is a
discipline that allows me and my Higher Power to be
together, reminding me that, with God's help, intuition and
inspiration are possible. Practice of the Step brings on selflove.
In a consistent attempt to improve my conscious
contact with a Higher Power, I am subtly reminded of my
unhealthy past, with its patterns of grandiose thinking and
false feelings of omnipotence. When I ask for the power to
carry out God's will for me, I am made aware of my
powerlessness. Humility and a healthy self-love are
compatible, a direct result of working Step Eleven."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "15",
"title": "VITAL SUSTENANCE",
"quote": "hose of us who have come to make regular use of prayer
would no more do without it than we would refuse air, food,
or sunshine. And for the same reason. When we refuse air,
light, or food, the body suffers. And when we turn away
from meditation and prayer, we likewise deprive our minds,
our emotions, and our intuitions of vitally needed support.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 97",
"reading": "Step Eleven doesn't have to overwhelm me. Conscious
contact with God can be as simple, and as profound, as
conscious contact with another human being. I can smile. I
can listen. I can forgive. Every encounter with another is an
opportunity for prayer, for acknowledging God's presence
within me.
Today I can bring myself a little closer to my Higher
Power. The more I choose to seek the beauty of God's work
in other people, the more certain of His presence I will
become."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "16",
"title": "A DAILY REPRIEVE",
"quote": "hat we really have is a daily reprieve contingent on the
maintenance of our spiritual condition.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 85",
"reading": "Maintaining my spiritual condition is like working out
every day, planning for the marathon, swimming laps,
jogging. It's staying in good shape spiritually, and that
requires prayer and meditation. The single most important
way for me to improve my conscious contact with a Higher
Power is to pray and meditate. I am as powerless over
alcohol as I am to turn back the waves of the sea; no human
force had the power to overcome my alcoholism. Now I am
able to breathe the air of joy, happiness and wisdom. I have
the power to love and react to events around me with the
eyes of a faith in things that are not readily apparent. My
daily reprieve means that, no matter how difficult or
painful things appear today, I can draw on the power of the
program to stay liberated from my cunning, baffling and
powerful illness."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "17",
"title": "OVERCOMING LONELINESS",
"quote": "lmost without exception, alcoholics are tortured by
loneliness Even before our drinking got bad and people
began to cut us off, nearly all of us suffered the feeling that
we didn't quite belong.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 90",
"reading": "The agonies and the void that I often felt inside occur less
and less frequently in my life today. I have learned to cope
with solitude. It is only when I am alone and calm that I am
able to communicate with God, for He cannot reach me
when I am in turmoil. It is good to maintain contact with
God at all times, but it is absolutely essential that, when
everything seems to go wrong, I maintain that contact
through prayer and meditation."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "18",
"title": "A SAFETY NET",
"quote": "ccasionally. . . . We are seized with a rebellion so
sickening that we simply won't pray. When these things
happen we should not think too ill of ourselves. We should
simply resume prayer as soon as we can, doing what we
know to be good for us.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 105",
"reading": "Sometimes I scream, stomp my feet, and turn my back on
my Higher Power. Then my disease tells me that I am a
failure, and that if I stay angry I'll surely get drunk. In those
moments of self-will it's as if I've slipped over a cliff and
am hanging by one hand. The above passage is my safety
net, in that it urges me to try some new behavior, such as
being kind and patient with myself. It assures me that my
Higher Power will wait until I am willing once again to risk
letting go, to land in the net, and to pray."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "19",
"title": "'I WAS SLIPPING FAST'",
"quote": "We A.A.'s are active folk, enjoying the satisfactions of
dealing with the realities of life, . . . So it isn't surprising
that we often tend to slight serious meditation and prayer as
something not really necessary.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 96",
"reading": "I had been slipping away from the program for some time,
but it took a death threat from a terminal disease to bring
me back, and particularly to the practice of the Eleventh
Step of our blessed Fellowship. Although I had fifteen years
of sobriety and was still very active in the program, I knew
that the quality of my sobriety had slipped badly. Eighteen}
,
{ months later, a checkup revealed a malignant tumor and a
prognosis of certain death within six }
,
{ months. Despair
settled in when I enrolled in a rehab program, after which I
suffered two small strokes which revealed two large brain
tumors. As I kept hitting new bottoms I had to ask myself
why this was happening to me. God allowed me to recognize
my dishonesty and to become teachable again.
Miracles began to happen. But primarily I relearned the
whole meaning of the Eleventh Step. My physical condition
has improved dramatically, but my illness is minor
compared to what I almost lost completely. 
NOVEMBER 20
'THY WILL, NOT MINE'
. . . when making specific requests, it will be well to add to
each one of them this qualification. '. . . if it be Thy will'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 102",
"reading": "I ask simply that throughout the day God place in me the
best understanding of His will that I can have for that day,
and that I be given the grace by which I may carry it out. As
the day goes on, I can pause when facing situations that
must be met and decisions that must be made, and renew
the simple request: 'Thy will, not mine, be done.'
I must always keep in mind that in every situation I am
responsible for the effort and God is responsible for the
outcome. I can 'Let Go and Let God' by humbly repeating:
'Thy will, not mine, be done.' Patience and persistence in
seeking His will for me will free me from the pain of selfish
expectations."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "21",
"title": "A CLASSIC PRAYER",
"quote": "ord, make me a channel for thy peace—that where there
is hatred, I may bring love—that where there is wrong, I
may bring the spirit of forgiveness—that where there is
discord, I may bring harmony—that where there is error, I
may bring truth—that where there is doubt, I may bring
faith—that where there is despair, I may bring hope—that
where there are shadows, I may bring light—that where
there is sadness, I may bring joy. Lord, grant that I may
seek rather to comfort than to be comforted—to understand,
than to be understood—to love, than to be loved. For
it is by self-forgetting that one finds. It is by forgiving that
one is forgiven. It is by dying that one awakens to Eternal
Life. Amen.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 99",
"reading": "No matter where I am in my spiritual growth, the St.
Francis prayer helps me improve my conscious contact
with the God of my understanding. I think that one of the
great advantages of my faith in God is that I do not
understand Him, or Her, or It. It may be that my
relationship with my Higher Power is so fruitful that I do
not have to understand. All that I am certain of is that if I
work the Eleventh Step regularly, as best I can, I will
continue to improve my conscious contact, I will know His
will }
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "22",
"title": "ONLY TWO SINS",
"quote": " . . there are only two sins; the first is to interfere with the
growth of another human being, and the second is to
interfere with one's own growth.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 542",
"reading": "Happiness is such an elusive state. How often do my
'prayers' for others involve 'hidden' prayers for my own
agenda? How often is my search for happiness a boulder in
the path of growth for another, or even myself? Seeking
growth through humility and acceptance brings things that
appear to be anything but good, wholesome and vital. Yet
in looking back, I can see that pain, struggles and setbacks
have all contributed eventually to serenity through growth
in the program.
I ask my Higher Power to help me not cause another's
lack of growth today—or my own."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "23",
"title": "'HOLD YOUR FACE TO THE LIGHT'",
"quote": "Believe more deeply. Hold your face up to the Light, even
though for the moment you do not see.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 3",
"reading": "One Sunday in October, during my morning meditation, I
glanced out the window at the ash tree in our front yard. At
once I was overwhelmed by its magnificent, golden color!
As I stared in awe at God's work of art, the leaves began to
fall and, within minutes, the branches were bare. Sadness
came over me as I thought of the winter }
,
{ months ahead, but
just as I was reflecting on autumn's annual process, God's
message came through. Like the trees, stripped of their
leaves in the fall, sprout new blossoms in the spring, I had
had my compulsive, selfish ways removed by God in order
for me to blossom into a sober, joyful member of A.A.
Thank you, God, for the changing seasons and for my everchanging
life."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "24",
"title": "A UNIVERSAL SEARCH",
"quote": "e quick to see where religious people are right Make use
of what they offer.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 87",
"reading": "I do not claim to have all the answers in spiritual matters,
any more than I claim to have all the answers about
alcoholism. There are others who are also engaged in a
spiritual search. If I keep an open mind about what others
have to say, I have much to gain. My sobriety is greatly
enriched, and my practice of the Eleventh Step more
fruitful, when I use both the literature and practices of my
Judeo-Christian tradition, and the resources of other religions.
Thus, I receive support from many sources in
staying away from the first drink."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "25",
"title": "A POWERFUL TRADITION",
"quote": "n the years before the publication of the book, 'Alcoholics
Anonymous,' we had no name. . . . By a narrow majority
the verdict was for naming our book 'The Way Out' . . .
One of our early lone members . . . found exactly twelve
books already titled 'The Way Out' . . . So 'Alcoholics
Anonymous' became first choice. That's how we got a name
for our book of experience, a name for our movement and,
as we are now beginning to see, a tradition of the greatest
spiritual import.
'A.A. TRADITION: HOW IT DEVELOPED,' pp. 35-36
Beginning with Bill's momentous decision in Akron to
make a telephone call rather than a visit to the hotel bar,
how often has a Higher Power made itself felt at crucial
moments in our history! The eventual importance that the
principle of anonymity would acquire was but dimly
perceived, if at all, in those early days. There seems to have
been an element of chance even in the choice of a name for
our Fellowship.
God is no stranger to anonymity and often appears in
human affairs in the guises of 'luck,' 'chance,' or
'coincidence.' If anonymity, somewhat fortuitously,
became the spiritual basis for all of our Traditions, perhaps
God was acting anonymously on our behalf."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "26",
"title": "THE HAZARDS OF PUBLICITY",
"quote": "eople who symbolize causes and ideas fill a deep human
need. We of A.A. do not question that. But we do have to
soberly face the fact that being in the public eye is
hazardous, especially for us.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 181",
"reading": "As a recovered alcoholic I must make an effort to put into
practice the principles of the AA. program, which are
founded on honesty, truth and humility. While I was
drinking I was constantly trying to be in the limelight. Now
that I am conscious of my mistakes and of my former lack
of integrity, it would not be honest to seek prestige, even
for the justifiable purpose of promoting the A.A. message
of recovery. Is the publicity that centers around the A.A.
Fellowship and the miracles it produces not worth much
more? Why not let the people around us appreciate by
themselves the changes that A.A. has brought in us, for that
will be a far better recommendation for the Fellowship than
any I could make."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "27",
"title": "THE PERILS OF THE LIMELIGHT",
"quote": "n the beginning, the press could not understand our
refusal of all personal publicity. They were genuinely
baffled by our insistence upon anonymity. Then they got the
point. Here was something rare in the world —a society
which said it wished to publicize its principles and its work,
but not its individual members. The press was delighted
with this attitude. Ever since, these friends have reported
A.A. with an enthusiasm which the most ardent members
would find hard to match.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 182",
"reading": "It is essential for my personal survival and that of the
Fellowship that I not use A.A. to put myself in the
limelight. Anonymity is a way for me to work on my
humility. Since pride is one of my most dangerous
shortcomings, practicing humility is one of the best ways to
overcome it. The Fellowship of A.A. gains worldwide
recognition by its various methods of publicizing its
principles and its work, not by its individual members
advertising themselves. The attraction created by my
changing attitudes and my altruism contributes much more
to the welfare of A.A. than self-promotion."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "28",
ATTRACTION, NOT PROMOTION
Through many painful experiences, we think we have
arrived at what that policy ought to be. It is the opposite in
many ways of usual promotional practice. We found that we
had to rely upon the principle of attraction rather than of
promotion.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 180-81",
"reading": "While I was drinking I reacted with anger, self-pity and
defiance against anyone who wanted to change me. All I
wanted then was to be accepted by another human simply
as I was and, curiously, that is what I found in A.A. I
became the custodian of this concept of attraction, which is
the principle of our Fellowship's public relations. It is by
attraction that I can best reach the alcoholic who still
suffers.
I thank God for having given me the attraction of a wellplanned
and established program of Steps and Traditions.
Through humility and the support of my fellow sober
members, I have been able to practice the A.A. way of life
through attraction, not promotion."}
,
{ "month": "NOVEMBER",
"day": "29",
"title": "'ACTIVE GUARDIANS'",
"quote": "To us, however, it represents far more than a sound public
relations policy. It is more than a denial of self-seeking.
This Tradition is a constant and practical reminder that
personal ambition has no place in A A. In it, each member
becomes an active guardian of our Fellowship.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 183",
"reading": "The basic concept of humility is expressed in the Eleventh
Tradition: it allows me to participate completely in the
program in such a simple, yet profound, manner; it fulfills
my need to be an integral part of a significant whole.
Humility brings me closer to the actual spirit of
togetherness and oneness, without which I could not stay
sober. In remembering that every member is an example of
sobriety, each one living the Eleventh Tradition, I am able
to experience freedom because each one of us is
anonymous. 
NOVEMBER 30
PROTECTION FOR ALL
At the personal level, anonymity provides protection or all
members from identification as alcoholics, a safeguard
often of special importance to newcomers, i t the level of
press, radio, TV, and films, anonymity tresses the equality
in the Fellowship of all members by putting the brake on
those who might otherwise exploit their A.A. affiliation to
achieve recognition, power, or personal gain.
'UNDERSTANDING ANONYMITY,' p. 5
Attraction is the main force in the Fellowship of A.A. The
miracle of continuous sobriety of alcoholics within A.A.
confirms this fact every day. It would be harmful if the
Fellowship promoted itself by publicizing, through the
media of radio and TV, the sobriety of well-known public
personalities who became members of A.A. If these
personalities happened to have slips, outsiders would think
our movement is not strong and they might question the
veracity of the miracle of the century. Alcoholics
Anonymous is not anonymous, but its members should be."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "1",
'SUGGESTED' STEPS
Our Twelfth Step also says that as a result of practicing all
the Steps, we have each found something called a spiritual
awakening. . . . A. A.'s manner of making ready to receive
this gift lies in the practice of the Twelve Steps in our
program.'",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 106-07",
"reading": "I remember my sponsor's answer when I told him that the
Steps were 'suggested.' He replied that they are
'suggested' in the same way that, if you were to jump out
of an airplane with a parachute, it is 'suggested' that you
pull the ripcord to save your life. He pointed out that it was
'suggested' I practice the Twelve Steps, if I wanted to save
my life. So I try to remember daily that I have a whole
program of recovery based on all Twelve of the
'suggested' Steps."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "2",
"title": "SERENITY",
"quote": "Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, . .
.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 106",
"reading": "As I continued to go to meetings and work the Steps, something
began to happen to me. I felt confused because I wasn't sure
what it was that I was feeling, and then I realized I was
experiencing serenity. It was a good feeling, but where had it
come from? Then I realized it had come ' . . . as the result of
these steps.' The program may not always be easy to practice,
but I had to acknowledge that my serenity had come to me after
working the Steps. As I work the Steps in everything I do, practicing
these principles in all my affairs, now I find that I am
awake to God, to others, and to myself. The spiritual awakening
I have enjoyed as the result of working the Steps is the
awareness that I am no longer alone."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "3",
"title": "IN ALL OUR AFFAIRS",
"quote": ". . . we tried to carry this message to alcoholics, and to
practice these principles in all our affairs.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 106",
"reading": "I find that carrying the message of recovery to other
alcoholics is easy because it helps me to stay sober and it
provides me with a sense of well-being about my own
recovery. The hard part is practicing these principles in all
my affairs. It is important that I share the benefits I receive
from A.A., especially at home. Doesn't my family deserve
the same patience, tolerance and understanding I so readily
give to the alcoholic? When reviewing my day I try to ask,
'Did I have a chance to be a friend today and miss it?' 'Did
I have a chance to rise above a nasty situation and avoid
it?' 'Did I have a chance to say 'I'm sorry,' and refuse to?'
Just as I ask God for help with my alcoholism each day,
I ask for help in extending my recovery to include all
situations and all people! }
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "4",
"title": "INTO ACTION",
"quote": "A. A. is more than a set of principles; it is a society of
alcoholics in action. We must carry the message, else we
ourselves can wither and those who haven't been given the
truth may die.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 13",
"reading": "I desperately wanted to live, but if I was to succeed, I had to
become active in our God-given program. I joined what
became my group, where I opened the hall, made coffee,
and cleaned up. I had been sober about three }
,
{ months when
an oldtimer told me I was doing Twelfth-Step work. What a
satisfying realization that was! I felt I was really
accomplishing something. God had given me a second
chance, A.A. had shown me the way, and these gifts were
not only free—they were also priceless! Now the joy of
seeing newcomers grow reminds me of where I have come
from, where I am now, and the limitless possibilities that he
ahead. I need to attend meetings because they recharge my
batteries so that I have light when it's needed. I'm still a
beginner in service work, but already I am receiving more
than I'm giving. I can't keep it unless I give it away. I am
responsible when another reaches out for help. I want to be
there—sober."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "5",
"title": "A NEW STATE OF CONSCIOUSNESS",
"quote": "He has been granted a gift which amounts to a new state of
consciousness and being.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 107",
"reading": "Many of us in AA. puzzle over what is a spiritual
awakening. I tended to look for a miracle, something
dramatic and earth-shattering. But what usually happens is
that a sense of well-being, a feeling of peace, transforms us
into a new level of awareness. That's what happened to me.
My insanity and inner turmoil disappeared and I entered
into a new dimension of hope, love and peace. I think the
degree to which I continue to experience this new dimension
is in direct proportion to the sincerity, depth and
devotion with which I practice the Twelve Steps of A.A."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "6",
"title": "WHEN THE CHIPS ARE DOWN",
"quote": "When we developed still more, we discovered the best
possible source of emotional stability to be God Himself.
We found that dependence upon His perfect justice,
forgiveness, and love was healthy, and that it would work
where nothing else would. If we really depended upon God,
we couldn't very well play God to our fellows nor would we
feel the urge wholly to rely on human protection and care.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 116",
"reading": "It has been my experience that, when all human resources
appear to have failed, there is always One who will never
desert me. Moreover, He is always there to share my joy,
to steer me down the right path, and to confide in when no
one else will do. While my well-being and happiness can
be added to, or diminished, by human efforts, only God can
provide the loving nourishment upon which I depend for
my daily spiritual health."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "7",
"title": "TRUE AMBITION",
"quote": "True ambition is not what we thought it was. True ambition
is the deep desire to live usefully and walk humbly under
the grace of God.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, pp. 124-25",
"reading": "During my drinking years, my one and only concern was to
have my fellow man think highly of me. My ambition in
everything I did was to have the power to be at the top. My
inner self kept telling me something else but I couldn't
accept it. I didn't even allow myself to realize that I wore a
mask continually. Finally, when the mask came off and I
cried out to the only God I could conceive, the Fellowship
of A.A., my group and the Twelve Steps were there. I
learned how to change resentments into acceptance, fear
into hope and anger into love. I have learned also, through
loving without undue expectations, through sharing my
concerns and caring for my fellow man, that each day can
be joyous and fruitful. I begin and end my day with thanks
to God, who has so generously shed His grace on me."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "8",
"title": "SERVICE",
"quote": "Life will take on new meaning. To watch people re-over, to
see them help others, to watch loneliness vanish, to see a
fellowship grow up about you, to have host of friends—this
is an experience you must not miss. . . . Frequent contact
with newcomers and nth each other is the bright spot of
our lives.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 89",
"reading": "t is through service that the greatest rewards are to be
found. But to be in a position of offering true, useful and
effective service to others, I must first work on myself.
This means that I have to abandon myself to God,
admitting my faults and clearing away the wreckage of my
past. Work on myself has aught me how to find the
necessary peace and serenity to successfully merge
inspiration and experience. I have learned how to be, in the
truest sense, in open channel of sobriety."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "9",
"title": "LOVE WITH NO PRICE TAG",
"quote": "When the Twelfth Step is seen in its full implication, it is
really talking about the kind of love that has no price tag on
it",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 106",
"reading": "In order for me to start working the Twelfth Step, I had to
work on sincerity, honesty, and to learn to act with
humility. Carrying the message is a gift of myself, no
matter how many years of sobriety I may have
accumulated. My dreams can become reality. I solidify my
sobriety by sharing what I have received freely. As I look
back to that time when I began my recovery, there was
already a seed of hope that I could help another drunk pull
himself out of his alcoholic mire. My wish to help another
drunk is the key to my spiritual health. But I never forget
that God acts through me. I am only His instrument.
Even if the other person is not ready, there is success,
because my effort in his behalf has helped me to remain
sober and to become stronger. To act, to never grow weary
in my Twelfth Step work, is the key. If I am capable of
laughing today, let me not forget those days when I cried.
God reminds me that I can feel compassion! 
DECEMBER 10
CARRYING THE MESSAGE
Now, what about the rest of the Twelfth Step? The
wonderful energy it releases and the eager action by which
it carries our message to the next suffering alcoholic and
which finally translates the Twelve Steps into action upon
all our affairs is the payoff, the magnificent reality, of
Alcoholics Anonymous.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 109",
"reading": "To renounce the alcoholic world is not to abandon it, but to
act upon principles I have come to love and cherish, and to
restore in others who still suffer the serenity I have come to
know. When I am truly committed to this purpose, it
matters little what clothes I wear or how I make a living.
My task is to carry the message, and to lead by example,
not design."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "11",
"title": "'A GENUINE HUMILITY'",
"quote": ". . . we are actually to practice a genuine humility. This is
to the end that our great blessings may never spoil us; that
we shall forever live in thankful contemplation of Him who
presides over us all.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 192",
"reading": "Experience has taught me that my alcoholic personality
tends to be grandiose. While having seemingly good
intentions, I can go off on tangents in pursuit of my
'causes.' My ego takes over and I lose sight of my primary
purpose. I may even take credit for God's handiwork in my
life. Such an overstated feeling of my own importance is
dangerous to my sobriety and could cause great harm to
A.A. as a whole.
My safeguard, the Twelfth Tradition, serves to keep me
humble. I realize, both as an individual and as a member of
the Fellowship, that I cannot boast of my accomplishments,
and that 'God is doing for us what we could not do for
ourselves.' }
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "12",
"title": "A COMMON SOLUTION",
"quote": "he tremendous fact for every one of us is that we have
discovered a common solution. We have a way out on
which we can absolutely agree, and upon which we can
join in brotherly and harmonious ac-ion. This is the great
news this book carries to those who suffer from alcoholism.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 17",
"reading": "The most far-reaching Twelfth Step work was the
publication of our Big Book, Alcoholics Anonymous. Few
can equal that book for carrying the message. My idea is to
get out of myself and simply do what I can. Even if I
haven't been asked to sponsor and my phone rarely rings, I
am still able to do Twelfth Step work. I get involved in
'brotherly and harmonious action.' At meetings I show up
early to greet people and to help set up, and to share my
experience, strength and hope. I also do what I can with
service work. My Higher Power gives me exactly what He
wants me to do at any given point in my recovery and, if I
let Him, my willingness will bring Twelfth Step work
automatically."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "13",
"title": "THINKING OF OTHERS",
"quote": "ur very lives, as ex-problem drinkers, depend upon our
constant thought of others and how we may help meet their
needs.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 20",
"reading": "Thinking of others has never come easily to me. Even when
I try to work the A.A. program, I'm prone to thinking,
'How do I feel today. Am I happy, joyous and free?'
The program tells me that my thoughts must reach out to
those around me: 'Would that newcomer welcome
someone to talk to?' 'That person looks a little unhappy
today, maybe I could cheer him up.' It is only when I
forget my problems, and reach out to contribute something
to others that I can begin to attain the serenity and Godconsciousness
I seek."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "14",
"title": "REACHING OUT",
"quote": "ever talk down to an alcoholic from any moral or
spiritual hilltop; simply lay out the kit of spiritual looks for
his inspection. Show him how they worked with you.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 95",
"reading": "When I come into contact with a newcomer, do I have a
tendency to look at him from my perceived ingle of
success in A.A.? Do I compare him with the large number
of acquaintances I have made in the Fellowship? Do I
point out to him in a magisterial way the voice of A.A.?
What is my real attitude toward him? I must examine
myself whenever I meet a newcomer to make sure that I
am carrying the message with simplicity, humility and
generosity. The one who still suffers from the terrible disease
of alcoholism must find in me a friend who will allow
him to get to know the A.A. way, because I had such a
friend when I arrived in A.A. Today it is my turn to hold
out my hand, with love, to my sister or brother alcoholic,
and to show her or him the way to happiness."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "15",
"title": "DOING ANYTHING TO HELP",
"quote": "ffer him [the alcoholic] friendship and fellowship. Tell
him that if he wants to get well you will do anything to
help.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 95",
"reading": "I remember how attracted I was to the two men from A.A.
who Twelfth-Stepped me. They said I could have what
they had, with no conditions attached, that all I had to do
was make my own decision to join them on the pathway to
recovery. When I start convincing a newcomer to do things
my way, I forget how helpful those two men were to me in
their open-minded generosity."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "16",
"title": "PARTNERS IN RECOVERY",
"quote": ". . nothing will so much insure immunity from finking as
intensive work with other alcoholics. . . Both you and the
new man must walk day by ay in the path of spiritual
progress. . . . Follow the dictates of a Higher Power and
you will presently live in a new and wonderful world, no
matter what your resent circumstances!",
"citation": ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, pp. 89, 100",
"reading": "Doing the right things for the right reasons—this is my
way of controlling my selfishness and self-centeredness. I
realize that my dependency on a higher Power clears the
way for peace of mind, happiness and sobriety. I pray each
day that I will avoid my previous actions, so that I will be
helpful o others."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "17",
"title": "A PRICELESS REWARD",
"quote": ". . . work with other alcoholics. . . . It work when other
activities fail.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 8",
"reading": "'Life will take on new meaning,' as the Big Book says
(p.89). This promise has helped me to avow self-seeking
and self-pity. To watch others grow in this wonderful
program, to see them improve the quality of their lives, is a
priceless reward for my effort to help others. Selfexamination
is yet another reward for an ongoing recovery,
as are serenity, peace and contentment. The energy derived
from seeing others on a successful path, of sharing with
them the joys of the journey, gives to my life a new
meaning."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "18",
"title": "HONESTY WITH NEWCOMERS",
"quote": "Tell him exactly what happened to you. Stress the spiritual
feature freely.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 93",
"reading": "The marvel of A.A. is that I tell only what happened to me.
I don't waste time offering advice to potential newcomers,
for if advice worked, nobody would get to A.A. All I have
to do is show what has brought me sobriety and what has
changed my life. If I fail to stress the spiritual feature of
A.A.'s program, I am being dishonest. The newcomer
should not be given a false impression of sobriety. I am
sober only through the grace of my Higher Power, and that
makes it possible for me to share with others."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "19",
"title": "UNDERSTANDING THE MALADY",
"quote": "When dealing with an alcoholic, there may be a natural
annoyance that a man could be so weak, stupid and
irresponsible. Even when you understand the malady
better, you may feel this feeling rising.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 139",
"reading": "Having suffered from alcoholism, I should understand the
illness, but sometimes I feel annoyance, even contempt,
toward a person who cannot make it in A.A. When I feel
that way, I am satisfying my false sense of superiority and I
must remember, but for the grace of God, there go I. 
DECEMBER 20
THE REWARDS OF GIVING
This is indeed the kind of giving that actually demands
nothing. He does not expect his brother sufferer to pay him,
or even to love him. And then he discovers that by the
divine paradox of this kind of giving he has found his own
reward, whether his brother has yet received anything or
not.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 109",
"reading": "Through experience with Twelfth Step work, I came to
understand the rewards of giving that demands nothing in
return. At first I expected recovery in others, but I soon
learned that this did not happen. Once I acquired the
humility to accept the fact that every Twelfth Step call was
not going to result in a success, then I was open to receive
the rewards of selfless giving."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "21",
LISTEN, SHARE AND PRAY
When working with a man and his family, you should take
care not to participate in their quarrels. You may spoil
your chance of being helpful if you do.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 100",
"reading": "When trying to help a fellow alcoholic, I've given in to an
impulse to give advice, and perhaps that's inevitable. But
allowing others the right to be wrong reaps its own
benefits. The best I can do— and it sounds easier than it is
to put into practice— is to listen, share personal
experience, and pray for others."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "22",
PRINCIPLES, NOT PERSONALITIES
The way our 'worthy' alcoholics have sometimes tried to
judge the 'less worthy' is, as we look back on it, rather
comical. Imagine, if you can, one alcoholic judging
another!",
"citation": "THE LANGUAGE OF THE HEART, p. 37",
"reading": "Who am I to judge anyone? When I first entered the
Fellowship I found that I liked everyone. After all, A.A.
was going to help me to a better way of life without
alcohol. The reality was that I couldn't possibly like
everyone, nor they me. As I've grown in the Fellowship,
I've learned to love everyone just from listening to what
they had to say. That person over there, or the one right
here, may be the one God has chosen to give me the
message I need for today. I must always remember to place
principles above personalities."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "23",
RECOVERY, UNITY, SERVICE
Our Twelfth Step—carrying the message—is the basic
service that AA's Fellowship gives; this is our principal aim
and the main reason for our existence.",
"citation": "THE LANGUAGE OF THE HEART, p. 160",
"reading": "I thank God for those who came before me, those who told
me not to forget the Three Legacies: Recovery, Unity and
Service. In my home group, the Three Legacies were
described on a sign which said: 'You take a three-legged
stool, try to balance it on only one leg, or two. Our Three
Legacies must be kept intact. In Recovery, we get sober
together; in Unity, we work together for the good of our
Steps and Traditions; and through Service—we give away
freely what has been given to us.'
One of the chief gifts of my life has been to know that I
will have no message to give, unless I recover in unity with
A.A. principles."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "24",
"title": "'SANE AND HAPPY USEFULNESS'",
"quote": "We have come to believe He would like us to keep our heads
in the clouds with Him, but that our feet ought to be firmly
planted on earth. That is where our fellow travelers are,
and that is where our work must be done. These are the
realities for us. We have found nothing incompatible
between a powerful spiritual experience and a life of sane
and happy usefulness",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 130",
"reading": "All the prayer and meditation in the world will not help me
unless they are accompanied by action. Practicing the
principles in all my affairs shows me the care that God
takes in all parts of my life. God appears in my world when
I move aside, and allow Him to step into it."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "25",
"title": "AT PEACE WITH LIFE",
"quote": "very day is a day when we must carry the vision of God's
will into all of our activities 'How can I best serve Thee—
Thy will (not mine) be done.'",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 85",
"reading": "I read this passage each morning, to start off my day,
because it is a continual reminder to 'practice these
principles in all my affairs.' When I keep God's will at the
forefront of my mind, I am able to do what I should be
doing, and that puts me at peace with life, with myself and
with God."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "26",
"title": "ACCEPTING SUCCESS OR FAILURE",
"quote": "urthermore, how shall we come to terms with seeming
failure or success? Can we now accept and adjust to either
without despair or pride? Can we accept poverty, sickness,
loneliness, and bereavement with courage and serenity?
Can we steadfastly content ourselves with the humbler, yet
sometimes more durable, satisfactions when the brighter,
more glittering achievements are denied us?",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 112",
"reading": "After I found A.A. and stopped drinking, it took a while
before I understood why the First Step contained two parts:
my powerlessness over alcohol, and my life's
unmanageability. In the same way, I believed for a long
time that, in order to be in tune with the Twelve Steps, it
was enough for me 'to carry this message to alcoholics.'
That was rushing things. I was forgetting that there were a
total of Twelve Steps and that the Twelfth Step also had
more than one part. Eventually I learned that it was
necessary for me to 'practice these principles' in all areas
of my life. In working all the Steps thoroughly, I not only
stay sober and help someone else to achieve sobriety, but
also I transform my difficulty with living into a joy of
living."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "27",
"title": "PROBLEM SOLVING",
"quote": "Quite as important was the discovery that spiritual
principles would solve all my problems.'",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 42",
"reading": "Through the recovery process described in the Big Book, I
have come to realize that the same instructions that work on
my alcoholism, work on much more. Whenever I am angry
or frustrated, I consider the matter a manifestation of the
main problem within me, alcoholism. As I 'walk' through
the Steps, my difficulty is usually dealt with long before I
reach the Twelfth 'suggestion,' and those difficulties that
persist are remedied when I make an effort to carry the
message to someone else. These principles do solve my
problems! I have not encountered an exception, and I have
been brought to a way of living which is satisfying and
useful."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "28",
"title": "SUIT UP AND SHOW UP",
"quote": "In A.A. we aim not only for sobriety—we try again to
become citizens of the world that we rejected, and of the
world that once rejected us. This is the ultimate
demonstration toward which Twelfth Step work is the first
but not the final step.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 21",
"reading": "The old line says, 'Suit up and show up.' That action is so
important that I like to think of it as my motto. I can choose
each day to suit up and show up, or not. Showing up at
meetings starts me toward feeling a part of that meeting, for
then I can do what I say I'll do at meetings. I can talk with
newcomers, and I can share my experience; that's what
credibility, honesty, and courtesy really are. Suiting up and
showing up are the concrete actions I take in my ongoing
return to normal living."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "29",
"title": "THE JOY OF LIVING",
"quote": ". . . therefore the joy of good living is the theme of A.A.'s
Twelfth Step.",
"citation": "TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS, p. 125",
"reading": "A.A. is a joyful program! Even so, I occasionally balk at
taking the necessary steps to move ahead, and find myself
resisting the very actions that could bring about the joy I
want. I would not resist if those actions did not touch some
vulnerable area of my life, an area that needs hope and
fulfillment. Repeated exposure to joyfulness has a way of
softening the hard, outer edges of my ego. Therein lies the
power of joyfulness to help all members of A.A.",
}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "30",
"title": "ANONYMITY",
"quote": "Anonymity is the spiritual foundation of all our Traditions,
ever reminding us to place principles before personalities.",
"citation": "ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, p. 564",
"reading": "Tradition Twelve became important early in my sobriety
and, along with the Twelve Steps, it continues to be a must
in my recovery. I became aware after I joined the
Fellowship that I had personality problems, so that when I
first heard it, the Tradition's message was very clear: there
exists an immediate way for me to face, with others, my
alcoholism and attendant anger, defensiveness,
offensiveness. I saw Tradition Twelve as being a great egodeflator;
it relieved my anger and gave me a chance to
utilize the principles of the program. All of the Steps, and
this particular Tradition, have guided me over decades of
continuous sobriety. I am grateful to those who were here
when I needed them."}
,
{ "month": "DECEMBER",
"day": "31",
"title": "DAILY RESOLUTIONS",
"quote": "The idea of 'twenty-four-hour living' applies primarily to
the emotional life of the individual. Emotionally speaking,
we must not live in yesterday, nor in tomorrow.",
"citation": "AS BILL SEES IT, p. 284",
"reading": "A New Year: 12 months, 52 weeks, 365 days, 8,760 hours,
525,600 minutes—a time to consider directions, goals, and
actions. I must make some plans to live a normal life, but
also I must live emotionally within a twenty-four-hour
frame, for if I do, I don't have to make New Year's
resolutions! I can make every day a New Year's day! I can
decide, 'Today I will do this . . . Today I will do that.'
Each day I can measure my life by trying to do a little
better, by deciding to follow God's will and by making an
effort to put the principles of our A.A. program into action."}
